H1: G-1055,Fee Schedule

ALERT:On Oct. 16, 2025, we published a new edition of Form G-1055, Fee Schedule. The new edition, 10/16/25:

- Clarifies the Annual Asylum Fee forForm I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal, which is due upon receipt of Notice and is paid online;

- Includes Immigration Parole Fee (Pub. L. 119-21) forForm I-941, Application for Entrepreneur Parole, which is due when notified by USCIS of conditional approval and is paid online; and

- Includes Immigration Parole Fee (Pub. L. 119-21) for certainForm I-131, Application for Travel Documents, Parole Documents, and Arrival/Departure Records, which is due when notified by USCIS of conditional approval and is paid online.

ALERT:On Oct. 1, 2025, we began sending notices to all aliens with a pending Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal, who are required to pay the new Annual Asylum Fee (AAF). We also sent notices to any representatives of these aliens listed on Form G-28.

If you have a pending Form I-589, Public Law 119-21 (P.L. 119-21) requires you to pay an AAF of $100 for each calendar year your application is pending, in addition to any other fee. You cannot get a waiver for the AAF.

If you receive a notice, you should pay the fee within 30 days. If you do not pay this fee, it may negatively affect your application, including, but not limited to, a delay in processing.

You must pay this fee online athttps://my.uscis.gov/accounts/annual-asylum-fee/start/overview. You will need your Alien Registration Number (A-Number) and the Receipt Number at the top of your notice to pay the fee.

ALERT:On July 18, 2025, USCISannouncednew fees required by the H.R. 1 Reconciliation Bill.

Applicants must submit the new fees with benefit requests postmarked on or after July 22, 2025. USCIS will reject any form postmarked on or after Aug. 21, 2025, without the proper fees.  For more information about these fees, please visit ourFee Schedulepage and ourweb alert.

Use this form to verify fee information for immigration forms.Each application, petition, or request must be accompanied by the correct fee(s) unless you are exempt from paying the fee(s) or are eligible for a fee waiver.  If the fee is incorrect, your application, petition, or request will be rejected.

Fees for applications, petitions, or requests can be paid by check, money order, Automated Clearing House (ACH) debit, or credit card.

Additional Fees required under Public Law 119-21 (Pub. L. 119-21)

Certain forms require additional fees along with any filing fee. Additional fees are not eligible for fee waivers and must be paid by separate payment concurrent with any filing fee. If your form does not have a filing fee or you have applied for a fee waiver for the form’s filing fee, you must still pay the new fee mandated by Pub. L. 119-21.

NOTE:Pub. L. 119-21 fees adjust each year as required by law. For specific information regarding the form you are filing, please see the Additional Fee for the form you are filing.

Fee Waivers

Certain filers may qualify for a fee waiver for certain forms. To determine your eligibility for a fee waiver, please reviewForm I-912, Request for Fee Waiver. If you are not eligible for a fee waiver, you must submit the correct fee(s). For most forms, you cannot request a fee waiver when filing online. You must file a paper version of Form I-912, or a written request for a fee waiver, and the form for which you are requesting a fee waiver. You may not request a fee waiver of the additional fees required by Pub. L. 119-21. However, you may request a waiver of the filing fee set by USCIS, if otherwise eligible, while submitting the additional fee required by Pub. L. 119-21.Fee Exemptions

Fee-exempt forms and filing categories list $0 as the Filing Fee. You do not need to fileForm I-912, Request for Fee Waiver, or make a formal request to qualify for a fee exemption. However, the fee exemptions in this schedule only indicate that the form is free to file. They do not indicate eligibility to file those benefit requests in all circumstances. Eligibility to file a particular benefit request is set forth in the applicable regulations and form instructions.

Edition Date

10/16/25. You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page of Form G-1055, Fee Schedule.

Downloads

USCIS Fee Schedule

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

H2: Form Details

10/16/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page of Form G-1055, Fee Schedule.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

H2: Select a Form for Fee Information