H1: G-1566,Request for Certificate of Non-Existence

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

Use Form G-1566 to determine if specific immigration records exist within our database. If we determine the records you inquired about do not exist, we will issue a Certificate of Non-Existence.

If we find the immigration record you inquired about, we will respond with additional information and will not issue a Certificate of Non-Existence.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/01/24.We will also accept the 07/19/22 edition. You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

USCIS Elgin Lockbox

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: G-1566 Manual ProcessP.O. Box 4074Carol Stream, IL 60197-4074

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: G-1566 Manual Process2500 Westfield DriveElgin, IL 60124-7836

You can find the filing fee for Form G-1566 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment. Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form G-1566. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form.Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English.Did you provide the following?

- Proof death (such as a death certificate or obituary) for a person born less than 100 years ago, (if applicable);

- All possible names, aliases and dates of birth for the subject of the request;

- The country of birth for the subject of the request; and

- A valid U.S. mailing address.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

If you have questions about submitting Form G-1566, emailcertificateofnonexistence@uscis.dhs.gov.