H1: I-129CWR,Semiannual Report for CW-1 Employers

An employer of an approved Form I-129CW, Petition for Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) Only Transitional Worker (CW-1), uses Form I-129CWR to verify the continued employment and payment of each worker under the terms and conditions of the approved petition.

During the validity of the petition, employers are required to file this report with USCIS every six months after the petition validity start date. USCIS may revoke the employer’s approved petition or deny their future petitions if they do not comply with the reporting requirement.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

For FedEx, UPS, DHL, and U.S. Postal Service (USPS):USCISAttn: Form I-129CWR10 Application WayMontclair, CA 91763-1350

You can find the filing fee for Form I-129CWR by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

If you are an employer whose petition has been approved for an employment start date on or after Oct. 1, 2019, you must file Form I-129CWR for each approved Form I-129CW petition according to the timeframes indicated in the chart below.

You must file this form no earlier than 30 days before and no later than 30 days after the listed timeframes. If you do not file Form I-129CWR in a timely manner, we may revoke your approved petition.

TABLE:
If your approved CW-1 petition has a validity period of: | Then you must file Form I-129CWR:
Less than six months | Never—Form I-129CWR is not required.
Six months or more, up to 12 months | Six months after the petition validity start date.
More than 12 months, up to 36 months | Every six months after the petition validity start date, up to and including the sixth month preceding the petition validity end date.

- CW-1: CNMI-Only Transitional Worker

- I-129CW, Petition for a CNMI-Only Nonimmigrant Transitional Worker

- Public Charge