H1: I-192,Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant

Use this form if you want to apply for advance permission to temporarily enter the United States and you are an:

- Inadmissible nonimmigrant and already have the appropriate documents; or

- Applicant or petitioner for T or U nonimmigrant status.

If you are seeking admission under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) under INA section 217, you cannot file this form. Instead, you must apply for a nonimmigrant visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate for authorization to travel. You should contact the appropriate U.S. Embassy or Consulate if you have any questions regarding your admissibility under the VWP.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

If you are an applicant for T nonimmigrant status and you are filing Form I-192 either at the same time or separately from the associated underlying Form I-914 or Form I-914A, mail your Form I-192 to:

USCIS Nebraska Service Center

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-914P.O. Box 87426Lincoln, NE 68501-7526

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-914850 S St.Lincoln, NE 68508-1225

We will adjudicate your application and will mail our decision to the address you provided in your application. If you have any questions about your case, please see theUSCIS Contact Centerwebpage or send a letter to the service center where you filed your application.

For more information, please see ourVictims of Human Trafficking: T Nonimmigrant Statuswebpage.

If you filed Form I-918 or I-918A, mail your Form I-192 to the Nebraska Service Center. This applies to any Form I-192 filed concurrently with or separately from the associated underlying Form I-918 or Form I-918A.

USCIS Nebraska Service Center

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCIS Nebraska Service CenterAttn: I-918P.O. Box 87918Lincoln, NE 68501-7918

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCIS Nebraska Service CenterAttn: I-918850 S St.Lincoln, NE 68508

We will adjudicate your application and will mail our decision to the address you provided in your application. If you have any questions about your case, please see theUSCIS Contact Centerwebpage or send a letter to the service center where you filed your application.

For more information, please see ourResources for Victims of Human Trafficking and Other Crimeswebpage.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-192 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-192. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form.Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- A written statement, signed under penalty of perjury, explaining why you are inadmissible and why you should be admitted if you are inadmissible under any provision of INA section 212(a)(3)(A)(i)(II), (B), (E)(iii), or (F);

- A detailed description of the health-related inadmissibility grounds if you are inadmissible because of health-related grounds;

- A written statement, signed under penalty of perjury, if you are inadmissible because you have been convicted of one or more crimes anywhere in the world. Include the official record of each criminal conviction and all court dispositions; and

- A written statement, signed under penalty of perjury, for any other grounds of inadmissibility.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject and return any unsigned form.

Where Can I Find the Law That Governs This Form?The statutory and regulatory basis for this form can be found in:

- INA section 212(d)(3)(A)(ii), and 212(d)(13) and (14);

- Title 8 Code of Federal Regulations(CFR), part 212.4(b), and 212.16 and 17; and

- 8 CFR sections 214.11 and 214.14 (for T and U visa applicants).

If you are applying directly with CBPYou may file your form and submit your payment electronically on theCBP website.

The CBP Admissibility Review Office will adjudicate your application and will send you email to view their decision.

If You Are Filing by PaperMake your check or money order payable to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The check or money order must be drawn on a bank or other financial institution physically located in the United States and must be payable in U.S. currency. Certain CBP-designated ports of entry may accept payment in the form of cash or credit cards.We recommend that you contact the CBP port of entry where you intend to submit the application for payment instructions. Please visit theCBP websitefor more information.

The CBP Admissibility Review Office will adjudicate your application and will mail their decision to the address provided on the application. We recommend that you wait at least 90 days from the date you submitted your application before making a status inquiry. To submit an inquiry, emailaroinquirywaiver@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are an attorney, send your inquiry toaroattorneyinquirywaiver@cbp.dhs.gov.

If You Are a Citizen of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Marshall IslandsYou may receive payment instructions by contacting the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate, or by emailing the CBP Admissibility Review Office ataroinquirywaiver@cbp.dhs.gov.