H1: I-356,Request for Cancellation of Public Charge Bond

This form should be used to request cancellation of a public charge bond that was submitted on behalf of an alien on Form I-945, Public Charge Bond.

Form I-356 can be submitted to request cancellation of the public charge bond by the alien on whose behalf the public charge bond was posted, the alien’s attorney or accredited representative, if any, or, if the alien is deceased, the executor of the alien’s estate. Form I-356 can also be filed by the obligor (the person who posted the bond for the alien) or the obligor’s authorized agent (co-obligor, for surety companies only). For more information about public charge bonds, please see theUSCIS Policy Manual, Volume 8, Part G, Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

USCISAttn: Form I-35610 Application WayMontclair, CA 91763-1350

A public charge bond will be cancelled once the alien dies, has permanently departed from the United States, is naturalized, or after the fifth anniversary of the alien becoming a lawful permanent resident. SeeImmigration and Nationality Act (INA) section 213and8 CFR 103.6(c)(1). A public charge bond may also be cancelled at any time if USCIS finds that the alien is not likely to become a public charge.

When examining whether the public charge bond can be cancelled, USCIS evaluates whether there has been a breach of the bond and all requirements for cancellation are met.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-356 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

- Form I-945, Public Charge Bond

- Public Charge

- Public Charge Resources

- Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility Final Rule 2022

- USCIS Policy Manual, Volume 8, Part G, Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility