H1: I-485 Supplement A,Supplement A to Form I-485, Adjustment of Status Under Section 245(i)

Use this form to provide us with additional information if you are requesting to adjust status under section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

File Supplement A together with your Form I-485. Go to ourDirect Filing Addresses for Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, page to see where you should file your application.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-485 Supplement A by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment. Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

If you previously filed your Form I-485 and it remains pending, be sure to include a copy of the I-797 receipt notice for your pending Form I-485 when filing your Form I-485 Supplement A.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

- USCIS Policy Manual Volume 7, Part C, 245(i) Adjustment