H1: I-508,Request for Waiver of Certain Rights, Privileges, Exemptions and Immunities

Use this form to waive certain diplomatic rights privileges, exemptions, and immunities associated with your occupational status (including any exemption from paying U.S. income taxes on the salaries paid to you by your foreign governments or organizations) if you are a non-U.S. citizen working for a foreign government mission or international organization and are employed in an occupational status that would entitle you to A, G or E nonimmigrant status, and are:

- a Lawful Permanent Resident; or

- seeking adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident.

This form complies with section 247(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (INA).

Under section 247(a) of the INA, a Lawful Permanent Resident who is employed in an occupational status that would entitle him or her to A, G or E nonimmigrant status and does not execute Form I-508 shall be adjusted to A, G, or E nonimmigrant status.

Similarly, applicants for adjustment of status who do not execute Form I-508 are ineligible to adjust status to permanent resident.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/16/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

File your Form I-508 with your local USCIS office, unless you are filing it at the same time asForm I-131, Application for Travel Document. In this case, you would file Form I-508 with the same USCIS office as your Form I-131.

If you are an applicant for adjustment of status, file this form with the same office as yourForm I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-508 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.