H1: I-526E,Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor

ALERT:Beginning Sept. 1, 2022, we will no longer accept a single, combined fee payment when an applicant or petitioner filesForm I-526, Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor, orForm I-526E, Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor,togetherwithForm I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status,Form 131, Application for Travel Documents, Parole Documents, and Arrival/Departure Records, orForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization. Petitioners must send a separate fee payment for each form.

If a petitioner or applicant submits a single, combined fee payment for Forms I-526 or I-526E and the other forms, we will reject the forms for improper fee payment and return the fee.

ALERT:We will reject all Form I-526 petitions when it indicates that the petitioner’s investment is associated with a regional center. Petitions for classification under INA 203(b)(5)(E) should be submitted on Form I-526E.

If you are an investor pooling your investment with one or more qualified immigrants participating in the Regional Center Program, use this form to petition U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for status as an immigrant to the United States under section 203(b)(5)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), as amended. A regional center investor may also use Form I-526E to report any amendments necessary to establish ongoing eligibility if the regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity in which the investor has invested is terminated or debarred from participation in the Regional Center Program.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

Please check ourDirect Filing Addresses for Form I-526, Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor and Form I-526E, Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor, page for information on where to mail your application. Petitions that are not submitted to the correct address may experience processing delays.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-526E by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and nonrefundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request. If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment. Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.