H1: I-687,Application for Status as a Temporary Resident Under Section 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act

For use during the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) Section 245A legalization program of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which ended in 1988. The form is now used to apply to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for benefits under the terms and conditions of certain settlement agreements.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

Currently there is no open filing period for submission of this application. USCIS may accept Form I-687 under certain circumstances, and we will provide those applicants with an address when appropriate.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-687 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.