H1: I-864W,Request for Exemption for Intending Immigrant's Affidavit of Support

The information on this page is out of date. However, some of the content may still be useful, so we have archived the page.

Use this form to establish that applicant is exempt from the Form I-864 requirements

H2: Form Details

12/08/21.E. We will also accept the 12/08/21 edition. You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

File this form and all required documentation with either:

- A consular officer (you must also submit a completed Form OF-230, Application for Immigrant Visa and Alien Registration); or

- An immigration officer (you must also submit a completedForm I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status).

If you file outside the United States:There is no fee if you file with USCIS or the Department of State.If you file within the United States:You must file with the Department of State; however, they charge a fee. For more information, please visit theirwebsite.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-864W. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form. Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- All Social Security Act (SSA) forms necessary to establish that you have or can receive credit for 40 quarters of work under the SSA (if applicable).

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

- Tips for Filing Form I-864W, Request for Exemption for Intending Immigrant’s Affidavit of Support

- I-864, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA

- Public Charge Resources