H1: I-864A,Contract Between Sponsor and Household Member

ALERT:USCISremindsindividuals who have signed and submitted Form I-864A on behalf of an alien that they face serious consequences if the alien they are obligated to support receives means-tested public benefits. Form I-864A is a legally binding contract between the sponsor and the sponsor’s household member. Household members who complete and sign Form I-864A agree to use their income to help the sponsor financially support the sponsored alien. If a sponsored alien receives means-tested public benefits, the benefit granting agency can request repayment from the sponsor and household member to recoup the cost of any benefits paid. If the sponsor or household member fails to repay the cost of the means-tested public benefits, the benefit granting agency may sue the sponsor and household member, who will be liable for the cost of the benefits, legal fees, and other associated costs. Household members should not take on this obligation if they are not prepared to follow through on the financial commitment.

Use this form if you are a household member and want to promise to make your income and/or assets available to help support a sponsored immigrant.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

10/17/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

File this form with Form I-864, Affidavit of Support.

You can find the filing fee for Form I-864A by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-864A. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form.Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- Your Internal Revenue Service (IRS) transcript or a copy of your federal income tax return for the most recent tax year. If you provide a copy, you must include a copy of every Form W-2 and Form 1099 that relates to your return. If you believe additional returns may help you to establish your ability to maintain sufficient income, you may submit transcripts or photocopies of your federal individual income tax returns for the three most recent years.You may choose to submit a photocopy or an Internal Revenue Service-issued transcript of your complete federal income tax returns for your second and third most recent tax years if you believe these additional tax returns may help you establish the ability to maintain your household income at the governing threshold set forth inForm I-864P, Poverty Guidelines.

- You may choose to submit a photocopy or an Internal Revenue Service-issued transcript of your complete federal income tax returns for your second and third most recent tax years if you believe these additional tax returns may help you establish the ability to maintain your household income at the governing threshold set forth inForm I-864P, Poverty Guidelines.

- You may choose to submit a photocopy or an Internal Revenue Service-issued transcript of your complete federal income tax returns for your second and third most recent tax years if you believe these additional tax returns may help you establish the ability to maintain your household income at the governing threshold set forth inForm I-864P, Poverty Guidelines.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

- Tips for Filing Form I-864A, Contract Between Sponsor and Household Member

- Form I-864P, 2024 HHS Poverty Guidelines for Affidavit of Support

- Important Reminder to Sponsors and Household Members Regarding Their Obligations Under Affidavits of Support Under Section 213A of the INA