H1: I-918,Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status

ALERT:As of Sept. 9, 2025, USCIS met the fiscal year 2025 statutory cap of 10,000 aliens who can be issued U-1 nonimmigrant visas or granted U-1 nonimmigrant status per fiscal year. We adjudicated petitions to meet the statutory cap based on filing date order, with the oldest petitions receiving highest priority. We have met this cap every year since fiscal year 2010. When the new fiscal year begins on Oct. 1, 2025, we will resume approving eligible principal petitions for U-1 nonimmigrant status starting with petitions filed on or before April 30, 2017, prioritizing the oldest petitions.

While USCIS has reached the cap for fiscal year 2025, we will continue to conduct bona fide determination reviews and, where applicable, consider petitions for placement on the waiting list.

If you are an alien and are a victim of a qualifying criminal activity, use this form to petition for temporary immigration benefits for yourself and your qualifying family members, as appropriate.

Q1. What is the bona fide determination process?

A1.By statute, USCIS has discretion to provide employment authorization to aliens with pending, bona fide U nonimmigrant status petitions. In June 2021, we implemented the bona fide determination process with the goal of conducting initial reviews of U nonimmigrant status petitions more efficiently and providing eligible victims of qualifying crimes with employment authorization and deferred action while they wait for final adjudication of their petition for U nonimmigrant status under the annual statutory cap. This will provide victims with stability and better equip them to cooperate with and assist law enforcement.

Q2. Who does the bona fide determination process apply to?

A2.This policy applies to all Form I-918 petitions and all Form I-918A petitions pending as of June 14, 2021, filed by principal petitioners and qualifying family members living in the United States, as well as Form I-918 petitions filed on or after this date by principal petitioners and their qualifying family members living in the United States. We do not consider principal petitioners and qualifying family members living outside of the United States for a bona fide determination because we cannot provide deferred action or employment authorization to petitioners outside the United States.

Q3. When did USCIS begin implementing the bona fide determination process?

A3.We published the new bona fide determination process in theUSCIS Policy Manualon June 14, 2021, and began adjudicating and issuing Employment Authorization Documents (EADs) shortly thereafter.

Q4. In what order will USCIS adjudicate cases for a bona fide determination?

A4.We will generally adjudicate cases for bona fide determinations in receipt date order, starting with the oldest pending petitions that have not already gone through a waiting list adjudication as of June 14, 2021.

Q5. I filed a petition for U nonimmigrant status several years ago. Will my petition now go through 3 different adjudications: bona fide determination, waiting list, and final adjudication? What happens if I was already placed on the waiting list before this policy was issued?

A5.Principal petitioners and qualifying family members will not all go through 3 different adjudications. As of June 14, 2021, we began adjudicating pending, non-waitlisted petitions filed by aliens living in the United States in receipt date order for bona fide determinations.

If a principal petitioner has a bona fide petition, merits a favorable exercise of discretion, and has filed their Form I-765, we will issue the principal petitioner a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action. We will place their petition in the queue in receipt date order to wait for final adjudication for U nonimmigrant status. These petitioners will not have to go through a waiting list adjudication unless new, adverse information impacts their ability to maintain a bona fide determination EAD.

Principal petitioners who we determine will not receive a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action will receive waiting list adjudication. If a principal petitioner receives waiting list adjudication, qualifying family members will also receive waiting list adjudication.

Principal petitioners and their qualifying family members placed on the waiting list before June 14, 2021, do not need to go through the bona fide determination process because they already can receive an EAD and deferred action. Petitioners placed on the waiting list before June 14, 2021, will be adjudicated for U nonimmigrant status in receipt date order at the same time as petitioners who received bona fide determination EADs and deferred action.

Q6. How are bona fide determinations for principal petitioners different from qualifying family members?

A6.A qualifying family member will not have access to a bona fide determination review unless and until the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination. We will first determine whether a principal petitioner living in the United States may receive a bona fide determination before we make a bona fide determination for any associated qualifying family member living in the United States. A principal petition is bona fide if:

- The principal petitioner properly filedForm I-918;

- The principal petitioner included a properly completed law enforcement certification (Form I-918 Supplement B, U Nonimmigrant Status Certification);

- The principal petitioner included a personal statement describing the facts of the victimization; and

- We received the results of the principal petitioner’s background and security checks based on biometrics.

We then assess the principal petitioner’s eligibility for a bona fide determination by considering whether they merit a positive exercise of discretion, including consideration of national security or public safety risks.

After the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination, we will evaluate the petitions of any qualifying family members living in the United States to assess whether they are eligible to receive a bona fide determination.

If the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination, this does not guarantee a qualifying family member living in the United States will receive a bona fide determination. The record must independently demonstrate the qualifying family member’sForm I-918, Supplement A, Petition for Qualifying Family Member of U-1 Recipient, is bona fide. A qualifying family member’s petition is bona fide if:

- The principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination;

- The petitioner has properly filedForm I-918, Supplement A;

- The petition includes credible evidence of the qualifying family relationship; and

- We receive the results of the qualifying family member’s background and security checks based on biometrics.

As with principal petitioners, we then consider whether the qualifying family member living in the United States merits a favorable exercise of discretion to receive a bona fide determination.

For more information on the bona fide determination process for principal petitioners, please see the USCIS Policy Manual Appendix:Bona Fide Determination Process Flowchart. For more information on the bona fide determination process for qualifying family members, please seeChapter 5: Bona Fide Determination, A. Bona Fide Determination, 2. Qualifying Family Members.

Q7. What do I need to file to receive a bona fide determination EAD?

A7.We will initiate bona fide determination adjudication of pending petitions not already placed on the waiting list. Principal petitioners, qualifying family members, and counsel do not need to take any action.

We are reviewing pending petitions filed by petitioners living in the United States in receipt date order. Petitioners will not need to submit an additional request. We will send petitioners a notice to file aForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, if they have not done so already.

Q8. I did not previously file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with my U visa petition. What should I do?

A8.We encourage petitioners to submit aForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, concurrently with their Form I-918 or Form I-918A. This will enable us to act efficiently on their case when it is current for consideration under the bona fide determination process. Please note that there is no fee for an initial bona fide determination EAD.

If you have a pending Form I-918 or Form I-918A and have not already submitted aForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, please submit Form I-765 now to the appropriate address in the “Where to File” section on theForm I-918webpage.

If a petitioner has already filed Form I-765 under8 CFR 274a.12(a)(19), (a)(20) or (c)(14)and we determined they will receive a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action, they will not need to submit another Form I-765.For additional information, please seeChapter 5: Bona Fide Determination, C. Adjudicative Process, 2. Previously Filed Form I-765 for Bona Fide Determination Process.Q9. Can petitioners still file Forms I-918 and I-765 together, or should we wait until USCIS issues a bona fide determination notice?

A9.We recommend that principal petitioners and their qualifying family members fileForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorizationwith their initial filings. Principal petitioners and qualifying family members may file a Form I-765 under a (c)(14) category for a bona fide determination EAD or if their petition is placed on the waiting list.

Q10. I am a new petitioner. Do I need to submit a fee or a fee waiver with my Form I-765 for the waiting list (under 8 CFR (c)(14))? Do I need to submit a fee or a fee waiver for the bona fide determination EAD?

A10.We do not charge a fee to file certain victim-based and humanitarian benefit requests, includingForm I-918, and the initialForm I-765associated with this form.

If a petitioner (principal petitioner or qualifying family member) does not file their Form I-765 concurrently with their Form I-918 and we determine they may receive a bona fide determination EAD, we will issue a notice indicating that they have received a bona fide determination, merit a favorable exercise of discretion, and may receive a bona fide determination EAD if they file Form I-765.

Petitioners do not need to submit a filing fee forForm I-765associated with the bona fide determination EAD.

Petitioners do not need to submit a filing fee for Form I-765 associated with waiting list placement.

Q11. Do I need to submit proof of economic necessity or file a Form I-765 worksheet?

A11.No, principal petitioners and their qualifying family members do not need to submit proof of economic necessity or file a Form I-765 worksheet to receive a bona fide determination EAD.

Q12. I received a bona fide determination notice from the Vermont Service Center, but I live in California and the website says I should send my Form I-765 to Nebraska. What should I do?A12.Please follow the directions included in the bona fide determination notice. For example, if you received a bona fide determination notice from the Vermont Service Center, send your Form I-765 to the Vermont Service Center.

Q13. Will you refund my filing fee if my Form I-765 under 8 CFR (a)(20) or (c)(14) is converted to a bona fide determination EAD?

A13.We cannot refund the filing fee for a previously submitted Form I-765 filed under 8 CFR (a)(20) and (c)(14). Petitioners do not need to submit a filing fee for the initial Form I-765 associated with a bona fide determination EAD or EAD based on waiting list placement. Petitioners also do not need to submit a filing fee or fee waiver if they choose to renew their bona fide determination EAD or waiting list placement EAD.

Q14. Will I have an opportunity to submit additional information so I can receive a bona fide determination EAD?

A14.When we determine a principal petitioner will not be granted a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action, we will issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) stating that we will not grant a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action and request the additional evidence we need for the waiting list adjudication.

Consequently, a principal petitioner who does not receive a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action still is able to obtain employment authorization and a grant of deferred action through waiting list placement, if they are found eligible for U nonimmigrant status but for the annual statutory cap. If we determine that the principal petitioner can be placed on the waiting list, that decision generally does not affect the timeline in which we adjudicate the petition for final determination of U nonimmigrant status. A determination that a petitioner (principal petitioner or qualifying family member) will not receive a bona fide determination EAD and deferred action is not a denial of Form I-918 (or Form I-918A) or the initial Form I-765.

Q15. My family member was living outside of the United States when I filed my Form I-918. Does that mean my family member will not receive a bona fide determination? Do I need to request the bona fide determination and submit Form I-765 now that they are in the United States?

A15.The bona fide determination process is for principal petitioners and their qualifying family members living in the United States. We will generally adjudicate cases for bona fide determinations in receipt date order, starting with the oldest pending petitions that did not already go through a waiting list adjudication as of June 14, 2021.

We will initiate bona fide determination adjudications for pending petitions that are not already on the waiting list without any action required by principal petitioners, qualifying family members, or counsel. We first determine whether the principal petitioner may receive a bona fide determination. After the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination, we then determine if the qualifying family member living in the United States may receive a bona fide determination.

The goal of the bona fide determination process is to address the significant increases in the volume of U nonimmigrant petitions and the backlog of petitions awaiting placement on the waiting list or final adjudication. All principal petitioners residing in the United States are considered for bona fide determination review, as this review saves limited agency resources and provides interim benefits to the greatest number of petitioners in a more efficient time frame. USCIS encourages the use of lawful, safe, and orderly processes for entering the United States.

If the qualifying family member has updated their current address with USCIS to show they are residing in the United States, we will review their petition for a bona fide determination EAD and no further action will be necessary. If a qualifying family member updates their current address with USCIS to show they are residing in the United States after the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination, then there may be delays in the bona fide determination review process for the qualifying family member given workload and resource priorities. If the principal petitioner does not live in the United States when we review their petition, we will perform a waiting list adjudication.

Follow the instructions at theHow to Change Your Addresswebpage to update your address for Form I-918 or Form I-918A.

Q16. How long will it take to receive my bona fide determination EAD?

A16.We are committed to adjudicating petitions in a timely and efficient manner. You can find current processing time information at theCheck Case Processing Timeswebpage. The time range reflects the time from receipt to when we issue either a bona fide determination notice or a notice that we will consider the petition for waiting list placement. It does not reflect the current processing times from initial receipt to the final issuance of U nonimmigrant status.

Q17. How does the bona fide determination process affect certifying officials?

A17.The bona fide determination process does not change the role of certifying officials who complete the law enforcement certification. We evaluate whether their Form I-918, Supplement B, meets initial evidence requirements during the bona fide determination process. We then consider whether their Form I-918, Supplement B, as well as the other evidence in the record, establishes eligibility during the final adjudication of Form I-918 when visas are available under the statutory cap. A complete and properly filed Form I-918, Supplement B, is a requirement for both the bona fide determination EAD and the final adjudication of Form I-918, so we encourage certifying officials to answer all questions on the form as fully as possible.

Q18. Can I renew my bona fide determination EAD and grant of deferred action?

A18.Generally, yes. If we do not adjudicate a principal petitioner or qualifying family member’s petition for U nonimmigrant status before the 4-year validity period of the EAD and deferred action ends, the alien may apply for renewal according to the Form I-765 Instructions. If granted, the alien would receive a bona fide determination EAD and grant of deferred action for another 4-year validity period.

At any point during the validity period, we have the right to revoke a bona fide determination EAD and terminate the grant of deferred action if we determine that the bona fide determination EAD and deferred action are no longer warranted, or if we issued the prior bona fide determination EAD in error. For example, we may revoke the bona fide determination EAD and terminate the grant of deferred action if the Form I-918 Supplement B is withdrawn, or if, within our discretion, we determine a national security or public safety concern is present.

For more information, please seeChapter 5: Bona Fide Determination, A. Bona Fide Determination, 6. Request to Renew Bona Fide Determination Employment Authorization Document and Deferred Action.

Q19. How long will my bona fide determination EAD and grant of deferred action be valid?

A19.An initial bona fide determination EAD and grant of deferred action will be valid for 4 years. The grant of deferred action will begin on the issuance date listed on your EAD. The bona fide determination process provides both a bona fide determination EAD and a grant of deferred action to petitioners who meet the criteria; you cannot get either alone.

Petitioners who do not receive a bona fide determination EAD and grant of deferred action, but who eventually receive waiting list placement, if eligible, will also receive an EAD and grant of deferred action for 4 years to promote consistency and fairness in the U program.

Q20. How does the bona fide determination process impact petitioners who are in removal proceedings?

A20.The bona fide determination process satisfies the prima facie standard that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) previously requested in specific circumstances. The steps taken to determine whether a petition is bona fide and whether a petitioner receives a bona fide determination rely on the initial evidence submitted with a petition for U nonimmigrant status, as well as the results of background checks. We will continue to coordinate with ICE on individual cases as requested by ICE. SeeChapter 5: Bona Fide Determination, C. Adjudicative Process, 4. Prima Facie Approval.

Q21: I have seen information posted by USCIS on the Policy Manual webpage. Are there other materials that USCIS or DHS has released to the public about the bona fide determination process?

A21.We have released the following materials:

- PM-V3-Part C: Bona Fide Determination Process

- PM-V3-Part C Appendix: Bona Fide Determination Process Flowchart

- Victims of Criminal Activity: U Nonimmigrant Status

- USCIS Issues Policy Providing Further Protections for Victims of Crime News Release

- Twitter/Twitter-Spanish

- Facebook/Facebook-Spanish

- English/Spanish Stakeholder Message

Q22. Where else can I find more information about the bona fide determination process?

A22.We introduced the bona fide determination process in theUSCIS Policy Manualon June 14, 2021. You can find information on the process inVolume 3, Part C, Chapter 5, as well as the Special Instructions sections of ourForm I-765andForm I-918pages. You can find a flowchart of the process for principal petitioners in the “appendices” tab in the USCIS Policy Manual.

Q23. How can I stay up to date on USCIS policies?

A23.You cansign up to receive email notificationsof new alerts from USCIS.

After receiving a Form I-918 from an alien in the United States, we begin a bona fide determination review of the principal petition under 8 U.S.C. § 1184(p)(6). We will not begin a Form I-918A bona fide determination review for a qualifying family member until after the principal petitioner receives a favorable bona fide determination review. Depending on whether the Form I-918A is filed with or after the Form I-918, the principal petitioner may have already received a bona fide determination before we receive the Form I-918A. Bona fide determinations generally proceed in date-of-filing order.

From late 2023 until early 2025, USCIS used data analysis to select certain Form I-918 petitions for a streamlined adjudicative process.  Streamlined bona fide determination adjudication was not used for petitions presenting certain factors, and those petitions received standard bona fide determination review. These factors included:

- National security concerns;

- Certain criminal or public safety issues;

- Significant inadmissibility grounds;

- Absence of required evidence; or

- Other administrative processing issues.

As of February 4, 2025, the streamlined process has been suspended.

If we determine during the bona fide determination review that the petition requires a comprehensive eligibility determination, it will not receive a favorable bona fide determination. Instead, it will receive a standard waiting list review under 8 C.F.R. § 214.14(d)(2), which may include issuing requests for evidence or notices of intent to deny. Waiting list determinations and issuing these requests and notices require significantly more adjudication time per case, compared to cases without these complex issues.

These factors affect the overall time to complete a waiting list adjudicative review. However, all Form I-918 petitions are adjudicated under the statutory annual cap in receipt date order.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.Starting May 5, 2025, we will accept only the 01/20/25 edition. Until then, you can also use the prior edition(s). You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

USCIS Nebraska Service Center

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCIS Nebraska Service CenterAttn: I-918PO Box 87918Lincoln, NE 68501-7918

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCIS Nebraska Service CenterAttn: I-918850 S St.Lincoln, NE 68508

You can find the filing fee for Form I-918 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-918. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form.Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- Your completed Supplement B Certification;

- Evidence you are the victim of qualifying criminal activity;

- Evidence you have suffered substantial physical or mental abuse;

- Evidence you possess information concerning criminal activity, and that the criminal activity is qualifying and violated United States law or occurred in the United States;

- Evidence you have been, are being, or are likely to be helpful to a certifying official in the investigation or prosecution of qualifying criminal activity;

- A personal statement;

- If you are inadmissible, an application for a waiver of inadmissibility onForm I-192, Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant; and

- If you are filing Form I-918, Supplement A, for a qualifying family member:Credible documentation of the claimed relationship;An explanation of why required documents are not available (if applicable); andIf your qualifying family member is inadmissible, Form I-192.

- Credible documentation of the claimed relationship;

- An explanation of why required documents are not available (if applicable); and

- If your qualifying family member is inadmissible, Form I-192.

- Credible documentation of the claimed relationship;

- An explanation of why required documents are not available (if applicable); and

- If your qualifying family member is inadmissible, Form I-192.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Do not forget to sign your form.We will reject and return any unsigned form.

Principal U Nonimmigrants:You are authorized to work once we have approved your underlying petitions for U nonimmigrant status. We will automatically issue an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) when we approve your petition. You do not need to file a separateForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, to receive an EAD related to the approval of your petition for nonimmigrant status.

Derivative U Nonimmigrants:If you reside inside the United States, you are authorized to work once we approve the derivative petition for U nonimmigrant status. However, you will not automatically receive an EAD. You must file Form I-765 to request an EAD related to the approval of your derivative petition.

We can only issue employment authorization for principal and derivative petitioners after we approve the underlying U nonimmigrant status petition, regardless of when you file Form I-765.

Statutory Cap:If the statutory cap is reached in a fiscal year, we will use the bona fide determination process and waiting list process as described below.

Bona Fide Determination:If you live in the United States, you may receive employment authorization and deferred action if you have a pending bona fide petition and warrant a favorable exercise of discretion. USCIS recommends that you submitForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, at the same time you submit your Form I-918 or Form I-918A. This will enable us to more efficiently consider your case under the bona fide determination process. Please note that there is no fee for a bona fide determination Employment Authorization Document (EAD).

If you have a pending Form I-918 or Form I-918A and have not already submittedForm I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, please submit Form I-765 now to the appropriate address in the “Where to File” section.

Note:We will not determine whether a qualifying family member’s petition is bona fide until after the principal petitioner receives a bona fide determination.

Waiting List:If you do not receive employment authorization and deferred action through the bona fide determination process, we will review your petition for the waiting list under 8 CFR 214.14(d)(2). Petitioners for U nonimmigrant status and derivatives in the United States who are granted deferred action under this provision can apply for an EAD based on deferred action. We will only approve these EADs after DHS has deferred action in your case, regardless of when you file Form I-765.

- U Nonimmigrant Status Program Updates