H1: I-929,Petition for Qualifying Family Member of a U-1 Nonimmigrant

ALERT:On Oct. 6, 2025, we changed the filing location forForm I-929, Petition for Qualifying Family Member of a U-1 Nonimmigrant. If you are filing Form I-929 postmarked on or after Oct. 6, 2025, you should file Form I-929 at the USCIS facility in Minneapolis, MN, instead of Service Center Operations – Nebraska. For more information, see the Where to File section below.

We will provide a 30-day grace period for forms mailed to Service Center Operations – Nebraska. Service Center Operations – Nebraska will reject any Form I-929 postmarked on or after Nov. 6, 2025.

Use this form to request immigration benefits on behalf of a family member who never held U nonimmigrant status.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

U.S. Postal Service, FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISATTN: I-9293 Intake WayMinneapolis, MN 55438-1455

You can find the filing fee for Form I-929 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-929. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form.Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- Evidence of your lawful permanent resident status, evidence that you have a pending Form I-485 based on your status as a U-1 nonimmigrant, or evidence that you are concurrently filing Form I-485 based on your status as a U-1 nonimmigrant;

- Evidence of your relationship to the alien beneficiary;

- Evidence of extreme hardship to you or your alien relative if they are not allowed to remain in or enter the United States; and

- Evidence to establish that we should exercise discretion in favor of your alien relative.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.