H1: I-941,Application for Entrepreneur Parole

ALERT: New Immigration Parole Fee

We are implementing a new immigration parole fee required by the H.R. 1 Reconciliation Bill. The fee is $1,000 for FY 2025 and is subject to annual adjustments for inflation. Donotpay the immigration parole fee when you submit Form I-941 to USCIS. Beginning on Oct. 16, 2025, if you are in the United States and we determine that we can approve your request for parole or re-parole and that it requires payment of the immigration parole fee, we will notify you that you must pay this fee before we can approve your request. The notice we send you will contain payment instructions and a deadline. We will not grant parole unless you pay the immigration parole fee as instructed and within the specified time period.

See theFederal Register noticefor more information.

ALERT:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

Under theInternational Entrepreneur Rule(IER), the Department of Homeland Security may use its authority to grant a period of authorized stay, on a case-by-case basis, to alien entrepreneurs who demonstrate that their stay in the United States would provide a significant public benefit through their business venture and that they merit a favorable exercise of discretion. (This period of authorized stay is technically called “parole.”)

Use this form if you are an entrepreneur and want to:

- Make an initial request for parole based upon significant public benefit;

- Make a subsequent request for parole for an additional period; or

- File an amended application to notify USCIS of a material change.

Please see theInternational Entrepreneur Rulepage for more detailed information and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

01/20/25.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: IER I-941P.O. Box 650890Dallas, TX 75265-0890FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: IER 941 (Box 650890)2501 S. State Highway 121 BusinessSuite 400Lewisville, TX 75067-8003

You can find the filing fee for Form I-941 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment. Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Checklist of Required Evidence:See ourInternational Entrepreneur Rulepage, which provides detailed FAQs for filing tips and required evidence (for informational purposes only).

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

Read more information about IER applications on ourInternational Entrepreneur Rulepage.