H1: I-956K,Registration for Direct and Third-Party Promoters

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

Each person acting as a direct or third-party promoter (including migration agents) of the following must complete Form I-956K:

- A regional center;

- Any new commercial enterprises;

- An affiliated job-creating entity; or

- An issuer of securities intended to be offered to immigrant investors in connection with a particular capital investment project.

Each person completing a Form I-956K must answer all questions as indicated on the form.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/01/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-956KP.O. Box 660168Dallas, TX 75266-0168

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-956K (Box 660168)2501 S. State Highway 12, 1 Business Suite 400Lewisville, TX 75067-8003

You can find the filing fee for Form I-956K by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

- Form Overview (YouTube)

- EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program