H1: I-956H,Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

Each person involved with a regional center, new commercial enterprise, or affiliated job-creating entity must complete and submit Form I-956H, Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program and the biometric services fee as a distinct filing along withForm I-956, Application for Regional Center Designation,Form I-956F, Application for Approval of Investment in a New Commercial Enterprise, or when persons must otherwise attest to their compliance with section 203(b)(5)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

To ensure accurate and timely processing and avoid potential rejection, each Form I-956H and its biometric services fee should be contained within a separate envelope or folder in the Form I-956 or Form I-956F packet, and clearly identified in a cover letter or memo with the Form I-956 or Form I-956F. The Form I-956 or Form I-956F packet, including any Form I-956H supplements and biometric services fees, should be mailed to the address provided under the Where to File section on the respective pages for those forms. USCIS will reject a form if it is not filed with the appropriate fee,8 CFR 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(D).

NOTE: Do not submit Form I-956H and the biometric services fee as exhibits to Form I-956 or Form I-956F applications or as exhibits in response to a USCIS notice. If you submit Form I-956H and biometric services fee as an exhibit to another filing or response to a USCIS notice, we may reject your associated form and delay processing.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/01/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-956HP.O. Box 660168Dallas, TX 75266-0168

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-956H (Box 660168)2501 S. State Highway 121 BusinessSuite 400Lewisville, TX 75067-8003

You can find the filing fee for Form I-956H by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

Please do not submit this checklist with your Form I-956H. The checklist is an optional tool to use as you prepare your form, but does not replace statutory, regulatory, and form instruction requirements. We recommend that you review these requirements before completing and submitting your form. Do not send original documents unless specifically requested in the form instructions or applicable regulations.

If you submit any documents (copies or original documents, if requested) in a foreign language, you must include a full English translation along with a certification from the translator verifying that the translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English.

Did you provide the following?

- A copy of the front and back of your Permanent Resident Card (also known as a Green Card) if you are a lawful permanent resident.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

Submission in Response to USCIS Notice

When submitting Form I-956H in response to a USCIS notice, such as a Request for Evidence or Notice of Intent to Deny, in connection with the adjudication of a Form I-956 or Form I-956F, doNOTsubmit Form I-956H as an exhibit to the response. To avoid rejection and best facilitate accurate and timely processing of your Form I-956H, when submitting Form I-956H in response to a USCIS notice, mail the Form I-956H to the address provided in the Where to File section. In Part 9, Additional Information, write the receipt number of the notice so that the submitted Form I-956H can be linked.

The response to the USCIS notice, excluding the Form I-956H, should be mailed as indicated in the notice. The response should list only the persons for whom any Form I-956H supplements are submitted in response to the USCIS notice but should not include the original or copies of the Form I-956H. Mailing Form I-956H with the response to the USCIS notice directly to the Immigrant Investor Program Office may result in rejection of the form.

- Form I-956, Application for Regional Center Designation

- EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program