H1: I-956F,Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

A designated regional center uses this form to request approval of each particular investment offering through an associated new commercial enterprise.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/01/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-956FP.O. Box 660168Dallas, TX 75266-0168

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-956F (Box 660168)2501 S. State Highway 121 BusinessSuite 400Lewisville, TX 75067-8003

You can find the filing fee for Form I-956F by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions, or by money order, personal check, or cashier’s checkonly.  If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and nonrefundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Filing Tips:Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form. We will reject any unsigned form.

Form I-956F is a new form that can only be filed by an approved regional center. INA 203(b)(5)(F)(i) states that a “regional center shall file an application with the Secretary of Homeland Security for each particular investment offering through an associated new commercial enterprise before any alien files a petition for classification under this paragraph by reason of investment in that offering.” INA 204(a)(1)(H)(i) states that an investor “may file a petition with the Secretary after a regional center has filed an application for approval of an investment under section 203(b)(5)(F).”

Each person involved with a new commercial enterprise and affiliated job-creating entity must complete and submitForm I-956H, Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program. Please review the Form I-956F Instructions for more information.

- Form Overview (YouTube)

- EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program

- Form I-956H, Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program

- Form I-956G, Regional Center Annual Statement