H1: N-470,Application to Preserve Residence for Naturalization Purposes

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

Use this form if you are a lawful permanent resident who must leave the United States for a period of one year or longer to engage in qualifying employment and you want to preserve your residence to pursue naturalization. In general, you must have been physically present in the United States as an LPR for an uninterrupted period of at least 1 year prior to working outside the U.S.

Qualifying employment outside the U.S. includes being:

- Employed by or under contract with the U.S. government;

- Employed by or under contract with an entity that is currently recognized by USCIS as anAmerican institution of research;

- Employed by an American firm or corporation engaged in the development of U.S. foreign trade and commerce, or a subsidiary thereof if more than 50 percent of its stock is owned by an American firm or corporation;

- Employed by a public international organization of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute and by which the applicant was not employed until after becoming an LPR; or

- Engaged solely for the purpose of performing the ministerial or priestly functions of a religious denomination that has a bona fide organization in the United States, or engaged solely by a religious denomination or interdenominational mission organization having a bona fide organization within the United States as a missionary, brother, nun, or sister.

If you are eligible for naturalization under section 319(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) because you are married to a U.S. citizen working for certain organizations overseas, you are exempt from establishing the naturalization residency and physical presence requirements. Therefore, you are not required to file Form N-470. Please visit ourApplication for Naturalizationpage for more information on applying for naturalization under section 319(b) of the INA.

H2: Forms and Document Downloads

H2: Form Details

04/01/24.You can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions.

Dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format.

If you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form.

If you need help downloading and printing forms, read ourinstructions.

For U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCIS

Attn: N-470P.O. Box 650809Dallas, TX 75265

For FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: N-470 (Box 650809)2501 S. State Hwy.121, BusinessSuite 400Lewisville, TX 75067

Generally, you may file the application before or after your employment begins, but you must file before you have been outside the U.S. for a continuous period of 1 year. If your absence is due to qualifying employment based on you performing the ministerial or priestly functions of a religious denomination or serving as a missionary, brother, nun, or sister, as described above, you may file the application either before or after your absence from the United States.

You can find the filing fee for Form N-470 by visiting ourFee Schedulepage.

You can pay the fee bycredit cardor debit card usingForm G-1450, Authorization for Credit Card Transactions, or byACH transactionusingForm G-1650, Authorization for ACH Transactions. We will also accept a money order, personal check, or cashier’s check. If you pay by check, you must make your check payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

When you send a payment, you agree to pay for a government service. Filing fees are final and non-refundable, regardless of any action we take on your application, petition, or request, or if you withdraw your request.If you pay by credit card or debit card, you cannot later dispute the payment. Use ourFee Calculatorto help determine your fee.

If you are submitting multiple forms, pay  each filing fee separately. We are transitioning to electronically processing immigration benefit requests, which requires us to use multiple systems to process your package. We may reject your entire package if you submit a single, combined payment for multiple forms.

Filing Tips for Form N-470, Application to Preserve Residence for Naturalization Purposes

Completeall sectionsof the form. We will reject the form if these fields are missing:

- Part 1 – A-Number

- Part 4 – Applicant’s Signature

Filing Tips: Review ourTips for Filing Forms by Mailpage for information on how to ensure we will accept your form.

Don’t forget to sign your form.We will reject any unsigned form.

Attorney or representative: You may be represented, at no expense to the U.S. government, by an attorney or other duly authorized or accredited representative. Your representative must submitForm G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative, with your Form N-470. They may also submit Form G-28 at the time of your interview.

Policy and Guidance

- USCIS Policy Manual, Volume 12, Part D, Chapter 3, Continuous Residence, Section D, Preserving Residence for Naturalization (Form N-470) [12 USCIS-PM D.3(D)]

- USCIS Policy Manual, Volume 12, Part D, Chapter 5, Section A, Qualifying Employment Abroad [12 USCIS-PM D.5(A)]