H1: Glossary

USCIS.gov now has an online dictionary (glossary). You can use this dictionary to quickly look up a definition or explanation for a topic. Get started by clicking on the letter your word begins with.

The dictionary is different from ourA-Z Index. You can still use the index to locate links to relevant content.

If you would like to suggest other words to be added to our dictionary, please send an email toUSCIS Webmaster.

A unique seven-, eight- or nine-digit number that the Department of Homeland Security assigned to an alien.  Also seeUSCIS Number.

Outside the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. See INA 101(a)(38).

“Abroad” includes the U.S. territory of American Samoa. American Samoa is considered as abroad because it is not included in the definition of United States at INA 101(a)(38).

A modification of an existing practice or procedure that will allow an applicant with a disability to participate in the application process.​

People who are connected to Board of Immigration Appeals-recognized organizations. These representatives can charge or accept only very small fees for their services. For a list of these BIA-accredited representatives, visitjustice.gov/eoir/recognition-accreditationroster-reports.

Citizenship conferred at birth on children born abroad to a U.S. citizen parent(s).

When proceedings have been postponed to another time or location.

USCIS’ review of a petition or application to determine if an alien is eligible for that immigration benefit .

The process that you can use to apply for lawful permanent resident status (also known as applying for a Green Card) when you are present in the United States. This means that you may get a Green Card without having to return to your home country to complete visa processing.

A procedure that allows certain aliens already in the United States to apply for immigrant status. Aliens admitted to the United States in a nonimmigrant, refugee, or parolee category may have their status changed to that of lawful permanent resident if they are eligible to receive an immigrant visa and one is immediately available.

Eligibility of an alien to lawfully enter the United States after inspection and authorization by an immigration officer.

Lawful entry into the U.S. after inspection by an immigration officer.

An 11-digit number found on Form I-94 or Form I-94A Arrival-Departure Record.

A decision from the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) that binds all USCIS adjudication officers, but has not yet published as a precedent decision.

Advance parole allows you to travel back to the United States without applying for a visa. An airline or other transportation company can accept an advance parole document instead of a visa as proof that you are authorized to travel to the United States. An advance parole document does not replace your passport. In most cases, you must have your advance parole document before you depart the United States.

A document in which a person gives facts, and swears that the facts are true and accurate.

An affidavit of support is a legally enforceable contract, and the sponsor’s responsibility usually lasts until the alien they sponsored either becomes a U.S. citizen, or is credited with 40 quarters of work (usually 10 years).

As a nonimmigrant class of admission, this is an alien coming temporarily to the United States to perform agricultural labor or services, as defined by the secretary of labor.

Any person not a citizen or national of the United States as defined in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)). This term may include a stateless person and is synonymous with “foreign national.”

Aliens born to U.S. citizen fathers in Vietnam after Jan. 1, 1962, and before Jan. 1, 1976. Spouses, children, and parents or guardians may accompany the alien to the United States.

Pub. L. 97-359 (Act of 10/22/82) allows certain Amerasian children to immigrate to the United States. To qualify for benefits under this law, an alien must have been born in Cambodia, Korea, Laos, Thailand, or Vietnam after Dec. 31, 1950, and before Oct. 22, 1982, and have been fathered by a U.S. citizen.

USCIS offices where applicants usually have their biometrics (such as fingerprints, photograph, and signature) taken.

When U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) arrests a removable alien. If ICE arrests an alien more than once in the same fiscal year, each apprehension is counted separately.

A common tradition in many cultures and is not the same as forced marriage. In an arranged marriage, families may play a role in choosing the marriage partner, but both individuals are free to choose whether to marry and when to get married. A forced marriage happens when families or others both arrange the marriage and deny the individuals to be married the choice of whether, when, and whom to marry.

The Arrival and Departure Record is the I-94, in either paper or electronic format, issued by a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer to foreign visitors entering the United States. As of April 30, 2013, most Arrival and/or Departure records are created electronically upon arrival. For more information, seeuscis.gov/i-94information.

An alien in the United States or at a port of entry who is unable or unwilling to return to their country of nationality, or to seek the protection of that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution. Persecution or the fear of persecution must be based on religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion.

An attorney who has properly filed a Form G-28 in a particular case and is held responsible as an attorney for the respondent.

A Department of State J-1 cultural exchange program that provides exchange visitors between 18 and 26 years old the chance to participate in the home life of a U.S. host family. All au pair participants provide child care services to the host family and attend a U.S. post-secondary educational institution.

Someone who is authorized by the Department of Justice's (DOJ) Office of Legal Access Programs (OLAP) to provide immigration services to the public. DOJ-recognized organizations and accredited representatives provide essential support to USCIS and the public. They provide educational materials and legal services to help immigrants navigate the immigration system. Authorized providers can help clients prepare forms and are also allowed to attend USCIS interviews with their clients.

An alien who is sponsored by a relative or a business or who has self-petitioned for an immigration benefit. A “principal beneficiary” is an alien who is named on an immigrant or nonimmigrant petition or application. A “derivative beneficiary” is an immediate family member of the principal beneficiary who may be eligible to receive the same immigration status as the principal beneficiary based on their family relationship.

An abbreviation for the Board of Immigration Appeals.

The processes used to identify people based on their physical traits, including fingerprints, photograph. and signature.

A waiver issued by USCIS that means the applicant does not have to file a form or pay a fee. Find a detailed explanation of blanket waivers related to specific categories in each volume of theUSCIS Policy Manual.

The part of the Executive Office for Immigration Review that is authorized to review most decisions of immigration judges and some types of decisions of Department of Homeland Security officers.

The amount of money set by the Department of Homeland Security or an immigration judge as a condition to release a person from detention for an immigration court hearing on a later date.

An immigration court hearing on a request to redetermine a bond set by the Department of Homeland Security. Bond proceedings are separate from other immigration court proceedings.

An alien resident of the United States reentering the country after an absence of less than 6 months in Canada or Mexico; or

A nonresident alien entering the United States across the Canadian border for stays of no more than 6 months or across the Mexican border for stays of no more than 72 hours.

The obligation of a party to establish a fact by presenting evidence in support of that fact.

An alien coming temporarily to the United States to engage in commercial transactions which do not involve gainful employment in the United States (for example, those engaged in international commerce on behalf of a foreign firm, who are not employed in the U.S. labor market, and who receive no salary from U.S. sources).

Allows foreign students requesting to change to H-1B status to extend their status and employment authorization through Sept. 30 of the calendar year for which the H-1B petition is being filed, but only if the employment start date in H-1B status will begin on Oct. 1. The extension is automatically terminated if USCIS rejects, denies or revokes the petition.

Carrier documentation allows an airline or other transportation carrier to board permanent residents who have temporarily been outside the United States and whose Green Card or re-entry permit has been lost, stolen, or destroyed.

Sporadic, irregular, or intermittent domestic service a person provides in a private home.

An abbreviation for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency within the Department of Homeland Security.

An identity document proving U.S. citizenship. Certificates of Citizenship are issued to derivative citizens and those who acquired U.S. citizenship (see definitions forAcquired citizenshipandDerivative Citizenship).

A Department of State-controlled document required to support an application for an exchange visitor visa (J-1) prepared by the program sponsor, which can only be produced through the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).

For Academic and Language School (Form I-20) – A Department of Homeland Security-controlled document required to support an application for a student visa (F-1 or M-1) prepared by the sponsoring school, which can only be produced through the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).

A certificate given to those who take the Oath of Allegiance. It serves as evidence of U.S. citizenship.

A translator’s formal statement showing they have accurately translated a foreign language document into English.

Abbreviation for the Code of Federal Regulations.

The INA provides two different definitions of “child.” One definition of child applies to immigration petitions and lawful permanent resident applications. The other definition of child applies to citizenship and naturalization.

One significant difference between the two definitions of child is that a stepchild is not included in the definition relating to citizenship and naturalization. Although a stepchild may be the stepparent’s “child” for purposes of visa issuance or adjustment of status, the stepchild is not the stepparent’s “child” for purposes of citizenship and naturalization. A stepchild is ineligible for citizenship or naturalization through their U.S. citizen stepparent unless the stepchild is adopted and the adoption meets certain requirements.

Definition for Purposes of Immigration Petitions and Lawful Permanent Residence Applications

Generally, for purposes of immigration petitions and lawful permanent residence (Green Card) applications, a child is an unmarried person under 21 years of age who is:

- A child born in wedlock (that is, to parents who are married to each other);

- A child born through assisted reproductive technology to a non-genetic gestational mother who is also the legal mother under the law of the relevant jurisdiction at the time of birth;

- A stepchild, if the child was under 18 years of age at the time of the marriage creating the stepchild relationship;

- A legitimated child (a child born out of wedlock who has since been placed in the same legal position as a child born in wedlock);

- A child born out of wedlock, when a benefit is sought on the basis of the child’s relationship with their mother, or to their father if the father has (or had) a bona fide relationship with the child;

- Achild adopted while under age 16(or 18 if the sibling exception applies) who has jointly resided with and been in the legal custody of the adopting parent for at least two years (who meets the requirements ofINA 101(b)(1)(E));

- Anorphanwho has been adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen or who is coming to the United States for adoption by a U.S. citizen (who meets the requirements ofINA 101(b)(1)(F)); or

- AHague Convention adopteewho has been adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen or who is coming to the United States for adoption by a U.S. citizen (who meets the requirements ofINA 101(b)(1)(G)).

Definition for Purposes of Citizenship and Naturalization

For the definition of a child for purposes of citizenship and naturalization, please refer to the USCIS Policy Manual, Volume 12, Citizenship and Naturalization, Part H, Children of U.S. Citizens, Chapter 2, Definition of Child and Residence for Citizenship and Naturalization, Section A, Definition of Child [12 USCIS-PM H.2(A)].

A medically trained and licensed physician having no less than 4 years’ experience who is designated by USCIS to perform immigration medical exams in a state where the physician is licensed and practicing medicine. For medical examinations performed abroad, please seepanel physician

IMPORTANT: Medical examinations will not be recognized if they are given by a doctor in the U.S. who is not a civil surgeon. Make sure that your appointment is with a civil surgeon or your results and documents will be invalid.

Federal departments and agencies issue regulations to interpret and implement the general provisions of laws enacted by Congress. These regulations apply the law to daily situations. Once regulations are published in the Federal Register, they are collected and published in the Code of Federal Regulations, commonly known as the CFR. The CFR is arranged by subject heading and in general follows the structure of theUnited States Code.

Any alien granted permanent resident status on a conditional basis (for example, a spouse of a U.S. citizen or an immigrant investor) who must petition to remove the conditions of their status before the second anniversary of the approval date of their conditional status.

H-1B petitions with anything other than “New employment” or “New concurrent employment” selected on Part 2, Question 2 of the Form I-129, whose first decision is an approval. This includes, for example, continuing employment, change of employer, and amended petitions.

H-1B petitions with anything other than “New employment” or “New concurrent employment” selected on Part 2, Question 2 of the Form I-129 whose first decision is a denial. This includes, for example, continuing employment, change of employer, and amended petitions.

The length of time a person has maintained a permanent home in the United States after being admitted as a lawful permanent resident. See thePolicy Manualfor more information.

- Birth: The country where a person is born.

- Chargeability: The independent country to which an alien entering under the preference system is accredited for purposes of numerical limitations.

- Citizenship: The country a person is born in or naturalized in (and has not renounced or lost citizenship).

- Former allegiance: The previous country of citizenship of a naturalized U.S. citizen.

- (Last) Residence: The country that an alien habitually resided in before entering the United States.

- Nationality: The country of a person’s citizenship or country in which the person is deemed a national.

An alien serving in a capacity required for normal operations and service on board a vessel or aircraft. Crewmen are admitted for 29 days with no extensions. The INA defines two categories of crewmen: D-1, departing from the United States with the vessel or aircraft on which they arrived, or some other vessel or aircraft; and D-2, departing from Guam with the vessel on which they arrived.

Status accorded 1) Cubans who entered illegally or were paroled into the United States between April 15, 1980, and Oct. 10, 1980, and 2) Haitians who entered illegally or were paroled into the country before Jan. 1, 1981. Cubans and Haitians meeting these criteria who have continuously resided in the United States since before Jan. 1, 1982, and who were known to Immigration before that date may adjust to permanent residence under a provision of the Immigration Control and Reform Act of 1986.

A program that allows students to accept paid alternative work or study, internships, cooperative education, or any other type of required internship or practicum that employers offer though cooperative agreements with the school.

The date the U.S. Department of State uses to determine whether a preference immigrant visa applicant can be scheduled for an immigrant visa interview in any given month. When “C” (meaning Current) is listed instead of a specific date, that means all priority dates are eligible for processing. The cut-off date is the priority date of the first applicant who could not be scheduled for a visa interview for a given month. Applicants with a priority date earlier than the cut-off date can be scheduled. However, if your priority date is on or later than the cut-off date, you will need to wait until your priority date is reached (becomes current).

Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program launched in 2012. For more information, go to theDeferred Action for Childhood Arrivalspage.

A person’s statement saying the information they have provided is true. For example, a declaration may list the facts and then state, “l declare under penalty of perjury (under the laws of the United States of America) that the foregoing is true and correct.”

An asylum application filed with an immigration judge during removal proceedings in immigration court as a defense against removal from the United States. Immigration courts are part of the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR).

A type of prosecutorial discretion that allows an alien to remain in the United States for a set period, unless the deferred action is terminated for some reason. Deferred action is determined on a case-by-case basis and only establishes lawful presence. It does not provide immigration status or benefits of any kind. DACA is one type of deferred action.

The president may authorize DED based on the power to conduct foreign relations. It is not a specific immigration status. Aliens covered by DED are not subject to removal from the United States, usually for a designated period.

Denial (as compared to rejection) – When USCIS notifies applicants or petitioners that the benefit will not be granted, or that they have not shown they are eligible for the benefit they have requested.

Department of the executive branch of the U.S. government charged with homeland security. This includes:

- Preventing terrorism and managing risks to critical infrastructure;

- Securing and managing the border;

- Enforcing and administering immigration laws;

- Safeguarding and securing cyberspace; and

- Ensuring resilience to disasters.

Department of the executive branch of the U.S. government with the primary responsibilities to:

- Enforce the law and defend the interests of the United States according to the law;

- Ensure public safety against threats foreign and domestic;

- Provide federal leadership in preventing and controlling crime;

- Seek just punishment for those guilty of unlawful behavior; and

- Ensure fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans.

Department of the executive branch of the U.S. government that fosters and promotes the welfare of the job seekers, wage earners, and retirees of the United States by improving their working conditions; advancing their opportunities for profitable employment; protecting their retirement and health care benefits; helping employers find workers; strengthening free collective bargaining; and tracking changes in employment, prices, and other national economic measurements. In carrying out this mission, the department administers a variety of federal labor laws including those that guarantee workers’ rights to safe and healthful working conditions; a minimum hourly wage and overtime pay; freedom from employment discrimination; unemployment insurance; and other income support.

An alien who has been admitted into the United States subject to any grounds of removal specified in the Immigration and Nationality Act. This includes any alien illegally in the United States, regardless of whether they entered the country by fraud or misrepresentation or entered legally but subsequently violated the terms of their nonimmigrant classification or status.

The formal removal of an alien from the United States when they have been found removable for violating the immigration laws. An immigration judge orders deportation without imposing or contemplating any punishment. Before April 1997, deportation and exclusion were separate removal procedures. The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 consolidated these procedures. After April 1, 1997, aliens in and admitted to the United States may be subject to removal based on deportability. Now called “removal,” this function is managed by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Citizenship conveyed to children through the naturalization of their parents or, under certain circumstances, to foreign-born children adopted by U.S. citizen parents, provided certain conditions are met.

The primary applicant’s spouse and/or children who will obtain status from the primary applicant.

The person designated by the head of a Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-approved school to support the principal designated school official and maintain records in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).

Detained/Detention – When a person is held in the custody of an agency in a prison or similar place.

An abbreviation for the Department of Homeland Security.

Groups of offices within USCIS that perform certain tasks to fulfill the USCIS mission.

Individuals who have physical or mental impairments that substantially limit one or more of their major life activities, have a record of such impairments, or are regarded as having such impairments.

SeeSpecial situations.

USCIS’ ability to decide the outcome of a request by weighing positive and negative factors in the applicant’s case, based on the facts and circumstances the applicant describes in the benefit application.

Unfair treatment in the workplace because of your race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), citizenship or immigration status, national origin, disability, age (age 40 or older), or genetic information.

This category of immigrants replaces the earlier categories for nationals of underrepresented countries and countries adversely affected by the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1965 (Pub. L. 89-236). The annual limit on diversity immigration was 40,000 during fiscal years 1992-94, under a transitional diversity program, and 55,000 beginning in fiscal year 1995, under a permanent diversity program.

The DHS mechanism for tracking the case status of potentially removable aliens.

An abbreviation for the U.S. Department of Justice.

An abbreviation for the U.S. Department of Labor.

Individuals who perform childcare, household tasks, or upkeep of a home or surrounding yard on a regular basis in return for wages or other benefits, and who are not independent contractors or providing services on a sporadic basis or for independent contractors or separate businesses.

See Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status.

Notation on certain nonimmigrant Forms I-94 indicating that an alien, such as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, is authorized to remain in the United States as long as they maintain a valid status.

A web-based system that allows enrolled employers to confirm the eligibility of their employees to work in the United States. E-Verify electronically compares information from an employee’s Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, against government records, including theSocial Security Administration (SSA)and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

The Immigrant Investor Program, also known as the Regional Center Program, sets aside EB-5 visas for participants who invest in commercial enterprises based on proposals for promoting economic growth.

An abbreviation for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

A person who provides services or labor for an employer for wages or otherremuneration(does not include an independent contractor or those engaged incasual domestic employment).

A person or entity, including an agent or anyone acting directly or indirectly in this interest, who engages the services or labor of an employee for wages or other remuneration to perform work in the United States. The term employer includes agricultural recruiters and referrers for a fee. In the case of an independent contractor or contract labor or services, the term employer means the independent contractor or contractor and not the person or entity using the contract labor.

A series of civil fines or criminal penalties for violating regulations that prohibit employers from hiring, recruiting, or referring for a fee aliens known to be unauthorized to work in the United States, or continuing to employ aliens knowing they are unauthorized, or hiring an individual without completing Form I-9.

Any service or labor performed by an employee for an employer within the United States, not including casual domestic employment or duties performed by nonimmigrant crewmen (D-1 or D-2).

A general term used to describe a card USCIS issues on Form I-766, Employment Authorization Card, to aliens who are authorized to work in the United States. The card contains a photograph of the alien and sometimes the alien’s fingerprint. An alien who has an EAD usually has open-market employment authorization, but there are exceptions.

An employer who has enrolled in E-Verify and has agreed to the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).

Abbreviation for theExecutive Office for Immigration Review.

Agency that enforces federal laws that prohibit discrimination against a job applicant or employee because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, or genetic information.

An alien admitted temporarily to the United States in J-1 status as a participant in a program approved by the secretary of state for the purpose of teaching, instructing, lecturing, studying, observing, conducting research, consulting, demonstrating special skills, or receiving training.

Executive actions have the same effect as a law but are not subject to the legislative process.

These include presidential proclamations, presidential directives, executive orders, and presidential memoranda.

Part of the Department of Justice that is responsible for immigration courts and the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Permite que un solicitante de inmigración sea admitido o permanezca en Estados Unidos a pesar de tener una condición de salud identificada como motivo de inadmisibilidad. Los términos y condiciones se pueden aplicar a una exención médica caso por caso.

A person who has been admitted to the United States as a full-time academic student at an accredited college, university, seminary, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution, or in a language training program. The student must be enrolled in a program or course of study that culminates in a degree, diploma, or certificate, and the school must be authorized by the U.S. government to accept foreign students.

FGM/C refers to cutting and other procedures that injure female genital organs for nonmedical reasons. The U.S. government opposes FGM/C, no matter the type, degree, or severity, and no matter what the motivation for performing it. The U.S. government considers FGM/C to be a serious human rights abuse and, when done to children, a form of child abuse.

An office within a USCIS district that provide services and enforcement functions for a particular portion of the district.

A USCIS district office or a suboffice of that district that maintains and controls alien files, commonly called A-Files.

The 12-month period that begins on Oct. 1 of one year and ends on Sept. 30 of the following year.

Abbreviation for the Freedom of Information Act.

A marriage that takes place without the consent of one or both people in the marriage. Consent means that you have given your full, free, and informed agreement to marry your intended spouse and to the timing of the marriage. Forced marriage may occur when family members or others use physical or emotional abuse, threats, or deception to force you to marry without your consent.

Victims of forced marriage may be girls, boys, women, or men. Forced marriage can affect individuals of any race, ethnicity, religion, gender, age, or national origin from all economic and educational backgrounds.

As a nonimmigrant class of admission, an alien (and their spouse and unmarried minor [or dependent] children) who comes temporarily to the United States who has been accredited by a foreign government to function as an:

- Ambassador;

- Public minister;

- Career diplomatic or consular officer;

- Other accredited official; or

- Attendant, servant, or personal employee of an accredited official.

As a nonimmigrant class of admission, an alien coming temporarily to the United States as a bona fide representative of foreign press, radio, film, or other foreign information media, and their spouse and unmarried minor (or dependent) children.

A person without U.S. citizenship or nationality (may include a stateless person). This term is synonymous with “alien” as defined in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)).

Seecountry of- chargeability.

Either:

- F-1 Nonimmigrant Student — An alien who has been admitted to the United States as a full-time academic student at an accredited college, university, seminary, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution, or in a language training program. The student must be enrolled in a program or course of study that culminates in a degree, diploma, or certificate and the school must be authorized by the U.S. government to accept foreign students; or

- M-1 Nonimmigrant Student — An alien who has been admitted to the United States to participate in vocational or other nonacademic programs, other than language training.

The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) is a federal statute that:

- Says people generally have a right to request access to federal agency records; and

- Establishes a presumption that records from agencies and departments of the Executive Branch of the U. S. government are accessible to the people, except when the records are protected from disclosure by any of nine exemptions contained in the law or by one of three special law enforcement record exclusions.

There are five geographic areas of chargeability—Africa, East Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, Near East and South Asia, and the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe—for the initial admission of refugees to the United States.

Also known as a Permanent Resident Card, Form I-551, or alien registration card. USCIS issues Green Cards to aliens as evidence of their lawful permanent resident status in the United States. For Form I-9, it is acceptable as proof of identity and employment authorization. Although some Green Cards do not have an expiration date, most are valid for 10 years. Cards issued to aliens with conditional permanent resident status are valid for 2 years.

Statutory limits on immigration to the United States in effect from 1968 to October 1978.

The actual commencement of employment of an employee for wages or otherremuneration.

Locations associated with an MOU where employees are hired.

A form of modern-day slavery where traffickers lure individuals with false promises of employment and a better life. Also known as trafficking in persons.

Aliens who are outside of the United States may be able to request parole into the United States based on humanitarian or significant public benefit reasons. SeeParole.

Seecertificate of eligibility for nonimmigrant (F-1) student status– For Academic and Language School.

Seearrival-departure record.

Abbreviation for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an agency of the Department of Homeland Security.

Abbreviation for the Immigrant and Employee Rights Section.

Immediate relatives include:

- The spouses of U.S. citizens;

- The children (unmarried and under 21 years of age) of U.S. citizens;

- The parents of U.S. citizens at least 21 years old; and

- Widows or widowers of U.S. citizens if the U.S. citizen filed a petition before his or her death or if the widow(er) files a petition within 2 years of the citizen’s death.

A section within the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice that enforces the anti-discrimination provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. § 1324b). This office protects U.S. citizens and employment-authorized aliens from employment discrimination based on citizenship, immigration status or national origin, with respect to hiring, firing, and recruitment or referral for a fee, and discrimination during the employment verification process.

Public Law 101-649 (Act of November 29, 1990), which increased the limits on legal immigration to the United States, revised all grounds for exclusion and deportation, authorized Temporary Protected Status to aliens of designated countries, revised and established new nonimmigrant admission categories, revised and extended the Visa Waiver Pilot Program, and revised naturalization authority and requirements.

An act of Congress that, along with other immigration laws, treaties, and conventions of the United States, relates to the immigration, temporary admission, naturalization, and removal of aliens.

An attorney appointed by the Attorney General to act as an administrative judge within the Executive Office for Immigration Review. An immigration judge is qualified to conduct specified classes of proceedings, including removal proceedings.

Pub. L. 99-639 (Act of 11/10/86), which was passed to deter immigration-related marriage fraud. Its major provision stipulates that aliens deriving their immigrant status based on a marriage of less than 2 years are conditional immigrants. To remove their conditional status, they must apply at a USCIS office during the 90-day period before their second anniversary of receiving conditional status. If they cannot show their marriage was and is a valid one, USCIS may terminate their conditional immigrant status and they may become deportable.

An act of Congress passed into law to control and deter illegal immigration to the United States. Its major provisions stipulate legalization of illegal aliens who had been continuously unlawfully present since 1982, legalization of certain agricultural workers, sanctions for employers who knowingly hire alien workers and increased enforcement at U.S. borders.

Fraudulent or deceptive practices that target immigrants.

Common immigration scams include Temporary Protected Status re-registration, the visa lottery, and “notarios públicos.”

Abbreviation for the Immigration and Nationality Act.

Not being allowed to lawfully enter the United States or obtain a visa abroad based on acts or conduct listed as an inadmissibility ground in section 212 of the INA.

An alien seeking admission at a port of entry who does not meet the criteria in the INA for admission. The alien may be placed in removal proceedings or, under certain circumstances, allowed to withdraw their application for admission.

A human being (does not include a nonhuman entity that is treated as a person for limited legal purposes, unless otherwise specified). This term is synonymous with “person” when it is used to describe a human being. The term may also refer to a characteristic of a single person, thing, or one particular member of a class or group.

H-1B petitions with “New employment” or “New concurrent employment” selected on Part 2, Question 2 of the Form I-129 whose first decision is an approval.

H-1B petitions with “New employment” or “New concurrent employment” selected on Part 2, Question 2 of the Form I-129 whose first decision is a denial.

Abbreviation for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which was abolished in 2003. Its functions are now performed by three agencies of the Department of Homeland Security: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Something that comes and goes in intervals.

Abbreviation for the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, Public Law 99-603, 100 Stat. 3359 (enacted Nov. 6, 1986).

An occurrence or activity that lacks in continuity or regularity.

The Internal Revenue Service is the nation’s tax collection agency and administers the Internal Revenue Code enacted by Congress. (www.irs.gov)

The government’s authority to govern or enforce laws or to enforce them in a certain area or over certain people.

This classification enables:

- A U.S. employer to transfer an executive or manager from one of its affiliated foreign offices to one of its offices in the United States; and

- A foreign company which does not yet have an affiliated U.S. office to send an executive or manager to the United States with the purpose of establishing one.

A Department of Labor certification required for U.S. employers seeking to employ aliens whose immigration to the United States is based on job skills or nonimmigrant temporary workers coming to perform services for which qualified authorized workers are unavailable in the United States.

Labor certification is issued by the secretary of labor and contains attestations by U.S. employers of the numbers of U.S. workers available to undertake the employment sought by an applicant, and the effect of the alien’s employment on the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed. Determination of labor availability in the United States is made at the time of a visa application and at the location where the applicant wishes to work.

Family name or surname.

Any alien who is living in the United States under legally recognized and lawfully recorded permanent residence as an immigrant. Also known as “permanent resident alien,” “resident alien permit holder,” and “Green Card holder.”

The maximum of 55,000 visas that were issued to spouses and children of aliens legalized under the provisions of theImmigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), Public Law 99-603, 100 Stat. 3359 (enacted November 6, 1986)in each of fiscal years 1992-94.

Certain illegal aliens who are eligible to apply for temporary resident status under the legalization provision of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

Abbreviation for the Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act.

When an immigration court clerk stamps a complete asylum application as “lodged not filed” at an immigration court window before the application is filed with an immigration judge at an immigration hearing.

EOIR uses the date the immigration judge accepts the application at a hearing as the date it is “filed.” However, USCIS uses the date the asylum application was stamped “lodged not filed” as an application filing date for purposes of calculating the 180-day asylum EAD clock.

Abbreviation for lawful permanent resident.

A woman’s last name or family name at birth, before she married.

The address where you would like to receive written correspondence from USCIS.

The first letter of the second given name.

Acronym for the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act.

North American Industry Classification System Code:  A character string that refers to an industry classification within the North American Industry Classification System.

A person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, persons born in American Samoa or Swains Island).

As a nonimmigrant class of admission, an alien—and the alien’s spouse and unmarried minor (or dependent) children—coming temporarily to the United States as a member of the armed forces or as a civilian employed by the armed forces on assignment with a foreign government signatory to NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization).

How a person not born in the United States voluntarily becomes a U.S. citizen.

We issue this certificate to a person who becomes a U.S. citizen through the naturalization process after their 18th birthday.

A person who appears in a lawsuit to act for the benefit of an alien who is under the age of 16, or is incapacitated or incompetent, who has suffered substantial physical or mental abuse as a result of being a victim of qualifying criminal activity. The next friend is not a party to the legal proceeding and is not appointed as a guardian.

An alien who is admitted to the United States for a specific temporary period of time. There are clear conditions on their stay. There are a large variety of nonimmigrant categories, and each exists for a specific purpose and has specific terms and conditions. Most nonimmigrants can be accompanied or joined by spouses and unmarried minor (or dependent) children.

Nonimmigrant classifications include:

- Foreign government officials;

- Visitors for business or pleasure;

- Aliens in transit through the United States;

- Treaty traders and investors;

- Students;

- International representatives;

- Temporary workers and trainees;

- Representatives of foreign information media;

- Exchange visitors;

- Fiancé(e)s of U.S. citizens;

- Intracompany transferees;

- NATO officials; and

- Religious workers.

Nonpreference visas were available to qualified applicants not entitled to a visa under the preferences until the category was eliminated by the Immigration Act of 1990.

Public Law 103-182 (Act of Dec. 8, 1993), created special economic and trade relationships for the United States, Canada and Mexico. The TN nonimmigrant classification allows qualified Canadian and Mexican citizens to seek temporary entry into the United States to engage in business activities at a professional level. Accountants, engineers, lawyers, pharmacists, scientists, and teachers fall into this category.

In many Latin American countries, the term “notario público” (which is Spanish for “notary public”) means something different from what it means in the United States. In many Spanish-speaking nations, “notarios” are powerful attorneys with special legal credentials. In the United States, however, notary publics are people appointed by state governments to witness the signing of important documents and administer oaths. A notario público is not authorized to provide any legal services related to immigration. Only an attorney or an accredited representative working for a Department of Justice-recognized organization can give legal advice.

Number as in A-Number, please see theA-Number/Alien Registration Number/Alien Number (A-Number or A#)entry.

Lawful permanent residents who are exempt from the provisions of the flexible numerical limit of 675,000 set by the Immigration Act of 1990.

Pub. L. 101-238 (Act of 12/18/89) allows certain nonimmigrants to adjust to permanent resident status if:

- They had H-1 nonimmigrant status as registered nurses as of Sept. 1, 1989;

- They had been employed in that capacity for at least 3 years; and

- Their continued nursing employment meets certain labor certification requirements.

For an alien entering the United States or adjusting without a labor certification, occupation refers to the employment held in the country of last legal residence or in the United States. For an alien with a labor certification, occupation is the employment for which certification has been issued.

The Office of Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman is an impartial resource that makes recommendations to us on how to improve services, increase efficiencies, and provide a more meaningful experience. We take these recommendations seriously, review them thoroughly, and, where possible, implement them.

Special immigrants who fall into one of three categories established by Pub. L. 96-70 (Act of 9/27/79):

- Certain former employees of the Panama Canal Company or Canal Zone government, their spouses, and their accompanying children;

- Certain former employees of the U.S. government in the Panama Canal Zone who are Panamanian nationals, their spouses, and their children; and

- Certain former employees of the Panama Canal Company or Canal Zone government on April 1, 1979, their spouses, and their children.

A medically trained, licensed, and experienced doctor practicing overseas who is appointed by the local U.S. Embassy or Consulate. These medical professionals receive U.S. immigration-focused training to provide examinations as required by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and USCIS. For medical examinations given in the United States, please see civil surgeon.

IMPORTANT: Please make sure that your appointment is with a civil surgeon or your results and documents will be invalid.

The discretionary decision that allows inadmissible aliens to leave an inspection facility freely so that, although they are not admitted to the United States, they are permitted to be physically present in the United States. Parole is granted on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit. Parole is not an “admission” or “entry.” The paroled alien is treated as an applicant for admission. Parole falls under INA section 212(d)(5)(A).

Discretion that allows aliens who are already physically present in the United States without inspection or admission an opportunity to stay in the United States for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit. Parole in place falls under INA section 212(d)(5)(A).

An individual who is paroled into the United States. SeeParole.

Regular, repeated, and intentional acts, but does not include isolated, sporadic, or accidental acts.

Wages or otherremuneration.

The maximum number of family-sponsored and employment-based preference visas that we can issue to nationals of any country in a fiscal year. We calculate the limits each fiscal year depending on the total number of family-sponsored and employment-based visas available. We cannot issue more than 7% of visas to nationals of any 1 independent country in a fiscal year, and we cannot issue more than 2% of visas to any 1 dependency of any independent country. Note that a country is not entitled to receive the maximum number of visas allowed by the per-country limit each year, but it cannot receive more than that number. Because of the combined workings of the preference system and per-country limits, most countries do not reach this visa limit.

SeeLawful Permanent Resident.

SeeLawful Permanent Resident.

Also known as a Green Card or alien registration card, this card is issued by USCIS to aliens as evidence of their lawful permanent resident status in the United States. For Form I-9, it is acceptable as proof of identity and employment authorization. Although some Permanent Resident Cards contain no expiration date, most are valid for 10 years. Cards held by aliens with conditional permanent resident status are valid for 2 years.

A human being. This does not include a non-human entity that is treated as a person for limited legal purposes, unless otherwise specified. This term is synonymous with “individual” when it is used to describe a human being. This definition is different than the definition Congress has provided for determining the meaning of federal statutes, according to which “person” includes “corporations, companies, associations, firms, partnerships, societies, and joint stock companies, as well as individuals,” unless the context indicates otherwise. See 1 U.S.C. 1.

A person who files an immigration petition or application.

The address where you physically reside.

Any location in the United States or its territories that is designated as a point of entry for aliens and U.S. citizens. All USCIS district offices and service centers are also considered ports of entry, because they become locations of entry for aliens adjusting to immigrant status.

A person authorized to file immigration petitions or applications with USCIS on behalf of aliens.

The complete immigration inspection of airport passengers before departing a foreign country. These immigrants do not need another inspection when they arrive in the United States. (However, nonimmigrant aliens must submit Form I-94.)

A published decision of the BIA or the AAO that is binding on all USCIS officers in the administration of the INA.

This describes the 9 categories among which family-sponsored and employment-based immigrant preference visas have been distributed since fiscal year 1992.

There are 4 family-sponsored preferences:

- Unmarried sons and daughters of U.S. citizens;

- Spouses, children, and unmarried sons and daughters of permanent resident aliens;

- Married sons and daughters of U.S. citizens;

- Brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens.

There are 5 employment-based preferences:

- Priority workers (persons of extraordinary ability, outstanding professors and researchers, and certain multinational executives and managers);

- Professionals with advanced degrees or aliens with exceptional ability;

- Skilled workers, professionals (without advanced degrees), and needed unskilled workers;

- Special immigrants; and

- Employment creation immigrants (investors).

An alien who applies for immigrant status and from whom another alien (usually a spouse or an unmarried minor child) may derive lawful status under immigration law or regulations.

An individual designated by the head of a Student and Exchange Visitor Program-approved school to have primary responsibility for students in that program and for maintaining records in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).

The priority date determines when it is an alien’s turn to apply for an immigrant visa. In family immigration, the priority date is the date when a person files a petition at a DHS office or submits a petition to a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad. In employment immigration, the priority date may be the date the Department of Labor receives a labor certification application.

A list of local organizations that provide free legal services. It is usually available at each local USCIS office. For more information about finding legal services, please visit theuscis.gov/scams-fraud-and-misconduct/avoid-scams/find-legal-services.

An estimate of how long it will take to process your case from start to finish. Each case is different, so some cases may take longer than others to process. You can find our average processing times on our website. If you use your receipt number to check your case status, please remember that we will only research your case if it is taking longer than our current processing times.

The legal authority to choose whether to take action against an individual for committing an offense.

Waiver for aliens who are otherwise inadmissible due to more than 180 days of unlawful presence in the United States, based on a showing of extreme hardship to certain U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident family members, which allows the individual to return after departure for an immigrant visa interview at a U.S. embassy or consulate. For more information, go to theProvisional Unlawful Presence Waiverspage.

People who know about immigration law and the rules of practice in court and will provide free services. Examples of qualified representatives include law school students and graduates and people with good moral character who have a personal or professional affiliation with you (a relative, neighbor, clergy, co-worker, or friend).

Permanent or conditional residents should apply for a reentry permit if they will be outside the United States for 1 year or more. A valid reentry permit allows you to apply for admission to the U.S. without having to get a returning resident visa from a U.S. embassy or consulate.

The receipt number is a unique 13-character identifier USCIS provides for each application or petition it receives. We use it to identify and track our cases.

The receipt number consists of 3 letters, such as EAC, WAC, LIN, SRC, NBC, MSC or IOE, with 10 numbers. You can find it on notices of action USCIS has sent you.

These are organizations that the BIA recognizes. To be recognized, an organization must have enough knowledge and experience to provide services to immigrants. A recognized organization can charge or accept only very small fees for those services. For a list of these BIA-recognized organizations, visitjustice.gov/eoir/recognition-accreditation-roster-reports.

The official file containing documents relating to an alien’s case.

You must visit the SSA or contact DHS about a Tentative Nonconfirmation (TNC) no later than this date.

Generally, any person outside their country of nationality who is unable or unwilling to return to that country because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution based on their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion. For a legal definition of refugee, see section 101(a)(42) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).

The number of refugees approved for admission to the United States during a fiscal year.

We issue refugee travel documents to aliens with refugee or asylum status and to lawful permanent residents who obtained their Green Card based on their refugee or asylee status so they may reenter the United States.

A qualified applicant for conditional entry between February 1970 and April 1980, whose application for admission to the United States could not be approved because of inadequate numbers of seventh-preference visas. As a result, we allowed the applicant to enter the United States under the parole authority granted to the secretary of homeland security.

Aliens who have continuously resided in the United States since Jan. 1, 1972, and are:

- Of good moral character;

- Not inadmissible; and

- Eligible to adjust to legal permanent resident status under the registry provision.

Before the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 amended the date, aliens also had to have been in the country continuously since June 30, 1948, to qualify.

Rules issued by an executive authority, such as a government department or agency in the executive branch, to carry out the intent of the law. Regulations issued by the federal government are first published in the Federal Register, then arranged in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Immigration regulations issued by DHS are codified in Title 8 CFR, Aliens and Nationality.

When USCIS determines that we cannot accept an immigration petition or application for intake, processing and adjudication because it lacks a basic requirement (for example, a required fee or signature).

Sending a case back to a lower court or tribunal to take an action ordered by a higher court or tribunal.

The expulsion of an alien from the United States. This expulsion may be based on grounds of inadmissibility or deportability.

Anything of value exchanged for labor or services, including food and lodging.

We may send you a request for additional evidence if:

- You did not submit all the required evidence;

- The evidence you submitted is no longer valid; or

- The officer needs more information to determine your eligibility.

The permanent relocation of refugees in a place outside their country of origin to allow them to establish residence and become productive members of society there. Refugee resettlement is accomplished with the direct assistance of private voluntary agencies working with the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement.

Aliens currently residing in the United States. SeePermanent resident,Conditional resident,Returning resident.

An official authorized to issue Form DS-2019.

A lawful permanent resident who has been outside the United States and is returning to the U.S. It is also defined as a “special immigrant.”

An abbreviation forRecord of Proceedings.

A temporary refuge given to aliens who have fled their country of origin to seek protection or relief from persecution or other hardships until they can return safely or, if necessary, until they can obtain permanent relief from the conditions they fled.

Service centers adjudicate applications that have been filed by mail, electronically, or with a USCIS Lockbox. Service centers do not provide in-person services, conduct interviews, or receive walk-in applications or questions. USCIS has 6 service centers: California, HART (Humanitarian, Adjustment, Removing Conditions, and Travel Documents), Nebraska, Potomac, Texas, and Vermont.

Aliens who perform labor in perishable agricultural commodities for a specified period of time and were admitted for temporary and then permanent residence under a provision of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

Children in the U.S. without legal immigration status who need humanitarian protection because they have been abused, abandoned, or neglected by a parent. SIJ status is an immigration classification that may allow these vulnerable children to apply immediately for lawful permanent resident status (a Green Card).

This refers to:

- Certain categories of immigrants who were exempt from numerical limitation before fiscal year 1992 and subject to limitation under the employment-based fourth preference beginning in 1992;

- Persons who lost citizenship by marriage;

- Persons who lost citizenship by serving in foreign armed forces;

- Ministers of religion and other religious workers, and their spouses and children;

- Certain employees and former employees of the U.S. government abroad, and their spouses and children;

- Panama Canal Act immigrants;

- Certain foreign medical school graduates, and their spouses and children;

- Certain retired employees of international organizations, and their spouses and children;

- Juvenile court dependents; and

- Certain aliens serving in the U.S. armed forces, and their spouses and children.

Provisions covering special classes of aliens who may naturalize even though they do not meet all the general requirements for naturalization. Such special provisions allow:

- Spouses of U.S. citizens to file for naturalization after 3 years of lawful permanent residence instead of the prescribed 5 years;

- A surviving spouse of a U.S. citizen who served in the armed forces to file their naturalization application in any district instead of where they reside; and

- Children of U.S. citizen parents to naturalize without meeting certain requirements or taking the Oath of Allegiance if they are too young to understand the meaning.

Other aliens who may qualify for special consideration are former U.S. citizens, servicemen, seamen, and employees of organizations promoting U.S. interests outside the United States.

Natural catastrophes and other extreme situations. In these cases, aliens may be eligible for extensions and changes of status, fee waivers, employment authorization, document replacement, and expedited processing.

When the secretary of homeland security suspends certain regulatory requirements for F 1 students from parts of the world experiencing an emergent circumstance, such as natural catastrophe; war and military conflicts; or national or international financial crises.

An occupation that requires theoretical and practical application of highly specialized knowledge in fields of human endeavor, including:

- Architecture;

- Engineering;

- Mathematics;

- Physical sciences;

- Social sciences;

- Medicine and health

- Education;

- Business specialties;

- Accounting;

- Law;

- Theology; and

- The arts.

Specialty occupations require attaining a bachelor’s degree or higher in a specific specialty, or its equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the occupation in the United States.

In immigration, “sponsor” often means to bring to the United States or “petition for.” To sponsor a relative, see theFamilywebpage.  To sponsor an overseas orphan, please see ouradoption webpages.

We also use “sponsor” to refer to someone who completesForm I-864, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the Act. However, this type of sponsorship is not the first step in any immigration process. To be a sponsor and file Form I-864, the following conditions must already be met:

- You have already petitioned for your relative;

- We already notified you that we approved the petition;

- The visa for your relative is currently available; and

- Your relative is scheduled to appear overseas at a U.S. consulate to submit their application for an immigrant visa, or is preparing to file to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident (on Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status) in the United States. If your relative is overseas, we will notify you as to where and when to submit Form I-864. If your relative is in the United States, you must complete Form I-864 and give it to your relative to file along with their Form I-485.

Occurring occasionally, once, irregularly, or in unplanned fashion.

Having no nationality.

An alien coming to the United States secretly on an airplane or vessel without legal status of admission. They are subject to denial of formal admission and return to the point of embarkation by the transportation carrier.

A DHS database developed to collect information on F, M, and J visa holders.

A unique identifier printed in the top right corner of each Form I-20 or Form DS-2019. It consists of a letter (N) and up to 11 numbers.

A government program that collects, maintains and provides information that allows legitimate foreign students or exchange visitors to enter the United States. SEVP uses SEVIS to track and monitor schools and programs, students, exchange visitors, and their dependents during their approved participation in the U.S. education system.

Under the provisions set by the Immigration Act of 1990, some categories of legal immigrant are subject to annual limits under the flexible numerical limit of 675,000. The largest categories are family-sponsored preferences, employment-based preferences, and diversity immigrants.

T nonimmigrant status provides immigration protection to alien victims of trafficking. The T visa allows victims to remain in the United States and help law enforcement authorities in the investigation or prosecution of human trafficking cases.

The secretary of homeland security may designate a foreign country for TPS due to conditions that temporarily prevent the country’s nationals from returning safely, or in certain circumstances, where the country cannot adequately handle the return of its nationals. We may grant TPS to eligible nationals of certain countries (or parts of countries), who are already in the United States. Eligible aliens without nationality who last lived in the designated country may also be granted TPS. The secretary may designate a country for TPS due to:

- Ongoing armed conflict (such as civil war);

- An environmental disaster (such as earthquake or hurricane); or

- Other extraordinary and temporary conditions.

Grants of TPS are initially made for periods of 6, 12, or 18 months and may be extended.

An alien who seeks temporary entry to the United States for a specific purpose. They must have permanent residence outside the United States (for most classes of admission) and qualify for the nonimmigrant classification they are seeking.

Seenonimmigrant.

An alien coming to the United States to work for a temporary period of time. The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and the Immigration Act of 1990, as well as other legislation, revised existing classes and created new classes of nonimmigrant admission. For more information, see ourTemporary Workerwebpage.

A TNC from DHS or the SSA means that the information your employer entered in E-Verify from your Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, did not match records available to DHS or SSA. Getting a TNC case result does not necessarily mean that you are not authorized to work in the United States.

An alien in immediate and continuous transit through the United States, with or without a visa, including:

- Aliens who qualify as persons entitled to pass in transit to and from the United Nations Headquarters District and foreign countries; and

- Foreign government officials and their spouses and unmarried minor (or dependent) children in transit.

An alien traveling without a nonimmigrant visa under section 233 of the INA. We admit them under agreements with a transportation line, which guarantees their immediate and continuous passage to a foreign destination.

SeeTransit alien.

We issue 4 types of travel documents:

- Advance parole;

- Refugee travel document;

- Re-entry permit; and

- Carrier documentation.

Provides immigration protection to crime victims who have suffered substantial mental or physical abuse as a result of the crime. The U visa allows victims to remain in the United States and help law enforcement authorities in the investigation or prosecution of the criminal activity.

A federal agency in DHS that oversees lawful immigration to the United States. Its functions include:

- Granting employment authorization to eligible aliens;

- Issuing documentation of alien employment authorization;

- Maintaining Forms I-9; and

- Administering the E-Verify employment eligibility verification program.

A DHS agency responsible for securing the homeland by preventing the illegal entry of people and goods while facilitating legitimate travel and trade.

DHS’s principal investigative arm, ICE’s primary mission is to promote homeland security and public safety through the criminal and civil enforcement of federal laws governing border control, customs, trade, and immigration.

A U.S. territory is a partially self-governing piece of land under the authority of the U.S. government. U.S. territories are not states, but they do have representation in Congress. There are 5 U.S. territories: American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Each territory is allowed to send a delegate to the House of Representatives.

The people who live in American Samoa are considered U.S. nationals; the people in the other 4 territories are U.S. citizens. Citizens of the territories can vote in primary elections for president, but they cannot vote in the general elections for president.

The unauthorized practice of immigration law occurs when people who are not attorneys or accredited representatives:•    Say they are qualified in legal matters;•    Provide legal assistance to applicants or petitioners in immigration matters; and•    Charge more than a nominal fee.

The continental United States (including the District of Columbia), Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

Pub. L. 100-449 (Act of 9/28/88) established a special, reciprocal trading relationship between the United States and Canada. It provided 2 new classes of nonimmigrant admission for temporary visitors to the United States: Canadian citizen businesspersons and their spouses and unmarried minor children. The North American Free-Trade Agreement (NAFTA) superseded the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement on Jan. 1, 1994.

An abbreviation for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a DHS agency.

The USCIS Immigrant Fee recovers USCIS costs related to immigrant visas issued by the U.S. Department of State at U.S. embassies and consulates outside the United States. The fee covers the cost of USCIS processing, filing, and maintaining immigrant visa packets, plus the cost of producing Green Cards.

A unique, 9-digit number assigned to an alien by the Department of Homeland Security that is listed on the front of Permanent Resident Cards (Form I-551 or Green Card) issued after May 10, 2010. See alsoAlien Registration Number or Alien Number.

Your USCIS Online Account Number (OAN) is a unique identification number issued by the USCIS online filing system account. You should have 1 account number for all cases submitted.

A U.S. visa allows the bearer to apply for entry to the U.S. in a certain classification, such as student (F), visitor (B) or temporary worker (H). A visa does not grant the bearer the right to enter the United States. The Department of State is responsible for visa adjudication at U.S. embassies and consulates outside of the United States.

CBP immigration inspectors determine the admission, length of stay and conditions of stay at a port of entry. The information on a nonimmigrant visa only relates to when an individual may apply for entry into the United States. DHS immigration inspectors will record the terms of your admission on your Arrival/Departure Record (I-94 white or I-94W green) and in your passport.

The visa bulletin summarizes the availability of immigrant numbers and indicates when aliens applying for an immigrant visa should be notified to assemble and submit required documentation to the National Visa Center.

The U.S. Department of State manages the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program (also known as the visa lottery). It is free, and the State Department will never send you an email about being selected.

This occurs when more people apply for a visa in a particular category or country than there are visas available for that month. Retrogression typically occurs toward the end of the fiscal year as visa issuance approaches the annual category or per-country limitations.

This program allows citizens of certain selected countries to enter the United States without obtaining nonimmigrant visas if they are traveling temporarily to the United States under the nonimmigrant admission classes of visitors for pleasure and visitors for business.

When an alien leaves the United States without an order of removal. Their departure may come after a hearing with an immigration judge. If the alien voluntarily departs, they will not have a bar to seek admission at a port of entry at any time. If they do not depart within the specified time, they will receive a fine and a 10-year bar to several forms of relief from deportation.

Knowingly making a statement or a claim that is not in accordance with the true facts. For more information, go toUSCIS Policy Manual, Volume 8, Admissibility, Part J, Fraud and Willful Misrepresentation.

An arriving alien’s voluntary retraction of an application for admission to the United States instead of a removal hearing before an immigration judge or an expedited removal.