H1: Chapter 4 - Adjudication

- Guidance

- Resources (17)

- Appendices (0)

- Updates (4)

H2: A. Discretion

USCIS’ authority to grant international entrepreneur parole (IEP) is discretionary and decided on a case-by-case basis. The officer determines, based on the totality of the evidence, whether an applicant’s presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and that the applicant otherwise merits a favorable exercise of discretion.

In determining whether an applicant’s presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and whether a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted, USCIS considers and weighs all evidence, including any derogatory evidence or information, such as, but not limited to, evidence of criminal activity and national security concerns.[1]

H2: B. Decision

H3: 1. Approvals

If the applicant establishes that the applicant’s presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit, USCIS may, in its discretion, approve the application for the applicant to be paroled into the United States for a period of up to 30 months. After approval of the application, the applicant may appear at a port of entry to request to be paroled into the United States.[2]The process after approval of the application is as follows:

Applicants in the United States

If the applicant is currently in the United States when USCIS approves or conditionally approves the application, the applicant must depart the United States before appearing at a U.S. port of entry for a final parole determination by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). A pending, approved, or conditionally approved application does not authorize the applicant, if they are present in the United States in nonimmigrant status, to remain in the United States beyond the expiration of their authorized period of stay.

USCIS requires the applicant’s biometrics to be collected and on file before approving the application. If the applicant requests to receive their parole documentation at their U.S. mailing address, USCIS sends a biometrics appointment notice. If the applicant requests to receive their parole documentation at a U.S. embassy or consulate, USCIS may make a preliminary decision on the application and issue a conditional approval notice with instructions on how to appear for biometrics submission and identity verification, generally at that U.S. embassy or consulate as part of the process for obtaining travel documentation.

Applicants Outside the United States

For those other than Canadian nationals traveling directly from Canada, if the applicant is outside the United States when USCIS conditionally approves the application, the applicant must visit a U.S. embassy or consulate to obtain travel documentation before appearing at a U.S. port of entry for a final parole determination. USCIS may make a preliminary decision on the application before collecting biometrics and issue a conditional approval notice with instructions on how to appear for biometrics submission and identity verification at the requested U.S. embassy or consulate. The applicant would be subject to U.S. Department of State (DOS) rules pertaining to the process for obtaining travel documentation.

A Canadian national traveling directly from Canada to a U.S. port of entry may present an approved or conditionally approved Application for Entrepreneur Parole (Form I-941) at the U.S. port of entry without first obtaining travel documentation from DOS. However, USCIS still requires the applicant to submit biometrics before parole may be authorized. The conditional approval notice includes options and instructions on how to complete the biometrics requirement in such circumstances.

Grant of Parole

Although advance authorization of parole by USCIS does not guarantee that the applicant will be issued travel documentation by DOS or paroled by CBP upon their appearance at a port of entry, with a grant of advance parole, the applicant is issued a document authorizing travel (in lieu of a visa) indicating that, so long as circumstances do not meaningfully change after USCIS conditionally approves Form I-941, and DHS does not discover material information that was previously unavailable, CBP’s discretion to parole the individual at a port of entry will likely be exercised favorably.

Work Authorization

An entrepreneur who is paroled into the United States is authorized for employment with the start-up entity incident to the conditions of the parole.[3]It is not necessary for the parolee to apply for an Employment Authorization Document.

H3: 2. Denials

If the applicant fails to establish that the applicant’s presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and that a favorable exercise of discretion is warranted, the officer denies the application and notifies the applicant in writing of the specific reasons for a denial.[4]An applicant may not appeal or move to reopen or reconsider a denial of international entrepreneur parole.[5]However, USCIS may reopen or reconsider a denial on its own motion.[6]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]See8 CFR 212.19(d)(1).

[^ 2]See8 CFR 212.19(d)(2).

[^ 3]See8 CFR 212.19(g)and8 CFR 274a.12(b)(37).

[^ 4]See8 CFR 103.3(a)(1).

[^ 5]See8 CFR 212.19(d)(4).

[^ 6]See8 CFR 103.5(a)(5).

H2: Resources

8 CFR 212.19- Parole for entrepreneurs

8 CFR 274a- Control of employment of aliens

82 FR 5238                 (PDF)- International Entrepreneur Rule

86 FR 50839                 (PDF)- International Entrepreneur Program: Automatic Increase of Investment and Revenue Amount Requirements

INA 212(d)(5),8 CFR 212.5- Parole of aliens into the United States

INA 274A- Unlawful employment of aliens

AR-11, Change of Address

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-102, Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document

I-765, Application for Employment Authorization

I-90, Application to Replace Permanent Residence Card

I-912, Request for Fee Waiver

I-941, Application for Entrepreneur Parole

Consumer Price Index

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

International Entrepreneur Parole

H2: Appendices

Noappendicesavailable at this time.

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to reflect the recently published final rule to codify the automatic adjustment of the investment, award, grant, and revenue thresholds for international entrepreneur parole. The guidance also clarifies the process for submitting biometrics for applicants who reside outside the United States.

3 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

3 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Requirements for Consideration

3 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Adjudication

3 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Additional Periods of Parole

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address international entrepreneur parole.

3 USCIS-PM G-Part G - International Entrepreneur Parole

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization