H1: Chapter 9 - Adjudicating Public Charge Inadmissibility for Adjustment of Status Applications

- Guidance

- Resources (68)

- Appendices (5)

- Updates (13)

Officers determine whether in the totality of the circumstances, after reviewing all the factors and evidence, the applicant is likely at any time to become a public charge.[1]

H2: A. Evidence in the Record

In making a public charge inadmissibility determination, a USCIS officer considers evidence relevant to the statutory minimum factors;[2]a sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA (Form I-864), where required; current and/or past receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense, if any; and the record as a whole, as part of a totality of the circumstances framework.

Evidence that could appear in the record as a whole, which USCIS may consider relevant in the totality of the circumstances, could include the applicant’s employment history (as stated on the Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485));[3]approval for the applicant to receive public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense in the future;[4]or other relevant information.

While many aliens may demonstrate their income through their employment history and associated salaries, some aliens may have periods of unemployment. USCIS may consider the alien’s employment history, in the totality of the circumstances, in the context of assessing the alien’s education and skills, as well as assets, resources and financial status. However, like other factors and considerations, the fact that an alien has experienced or is experiencing a period of unemployment is not alone sufficient to conclude that an alien will become a public charge in the future. Also, a history of prior employment may be helpful to determine that the alien has the education or skills that make it likely that they will again be employed and again earn income.

If deemed necessary in the totality of the circumstances assessment, a USCIS officer may request evidence of expected employment, including job offers with estimated salary.[5]

H3: 1. Potential Future Receipt of Public Cash Assistance for Income Maintenance or Long-term Institutionalization at Government Expense

Although USCIS expects this to be rare, it is possible that an applicant could, on their own behalf, be certified for, or approved to receive in the future, public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense.

While such certification or approval would not constitute receipt of such benefits under the regulations,[6]evidence of such certification or approval could indicate the probability of future receipt, and be considered by USCIS as probative of whether the applicant is likely to become a public charge at any time in the future.[7]As such, USCIS considers this certification or approval for future receipt, if any, in the totality of the circumstances.

H3: 2. Other Relevant Information

The totality of the circumstances analysis includes all information or evidence in the record before the officer that is relevant to a public charge inadmissibility determination, including forms and evidence previously submitted to USCIS.

For example, it is possible that some applicants for adjustment of status may have previously requested and received a fee waiver for a prior immigration benefit. In such a case, the officer considers this evidence in the totality of circumstances, such as by taking into account the recency and amount of the fee waiver, as well as the grounds for eligibility.[8]

As a general matter, the most common eligibility criteria for a fee waiver are receipt of a means-tested benefit or household income below 150 percent of theFederal Poverty Guidelines(FPG), both of which would already be evident in the applicant’s responses to questions onForm I-485. If the fee waiver were requested on the basis of financial hardship, then the officer could request additional evidence on the nature and recency of such hardship in the totality of the circumstances. Note that USCIS is not collecting information about previously received fee waivers on Form I-485. However, if such information is in the record, officers may consider it in the totality of the circumstances.[9]

H3: 3. Other Notable Circumstances Relevant in the Totality of the Circumstances

Children

The statute does not exempt children from the public charge ground of inadmissibility.[10]As with all applicants, when making a public charge inadmissibility determination for applicants who are children, USCIS must consider all of the required factors, including current and/or past receipt of public benefits.[11]As with any applicant, USCIS considers the recency, amount, and duration of receipt of such benefits when determining whether an alien child is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence.[12]

In the rare case that an alien child has received or is receiving public cash assistance for income maintenance or has been institutionalized long-term at government expense, USCIS will, consistent with the totality of the circumstances analysis, consider financial contributions of a child’s household and the circumstances that resulted in the child’s receipt of public benefits and the likelihood that those circumstances would continue in the future.

The officer should also take into account whether the benefits received were due to temporary parental unemployment or other temporary circumstances. For applicants who were long-term institutionalized at government expense while children, USCIS considers any evidence supplied by the applicant that the applicant’s condition was or is not permanent or was or can be managed through home and community-based services, as well as any evidence that the applicant was or is institutionalized in violation of their rights in the totality of the circumstances.[13]

Benefits Received by Aliens During or After Pregnancy

Aliens who are pregnant or were recently pregnant are not exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility based on that pregnancy. If an applicant received or is receiving public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense while pregnant or recently pregnant, USCIS must consider that receipt.

However, USCIS takes the applicant’s surrounding circumstances into account when assessing whether they are likely at any time to become a public charge, including the temporary nature of pregnancy and potentially temporary nature of postpartum conditions, and how these circumstances may have impacted the applicant’s receipt of public benefits, in the totality of the circumstances.[14]

Active-duty Service Members

Active-duty U.S. service members are not exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility based on that service.[15]However, in general, very few active-duty service members use the public benefits considered in public charge inadmissibility determinations,[16]and active-duty service members therefore generally will not be impacted by the consideration of receipt of public benefits in a public charge inadmissibility determination.

In the rare case of an active-duty service member who received or is receiving public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense, the officer should consider any evidence the applicant provides regarding circumstances surrounding the duration, amount, and recency of receipt, and how that may have been impacted by their service. The officer should also consider any evidence the applicant submits relating to skills they obtained through their military service.

Crime, Domestic Violence, or Other Adverse Circumstances

Aliens who have experienced crime, domestic violence, or other adverse circumstances may have used public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense but may not fall into one of the specific categories that Congress has exempted from the public charge ground of inadmissibility.[17]Such aliens may choose to provide information or evidence relating to their temporary circumstances that may be relevant to a public charge inadmissibility determination.[18]USCIS takes the surrounding circumstances into account in the totality of the circumstances.

H2: B. Totality of the Circumstances Scenarios

Below are hypothetical examples that are intended to help illustrate a USCIS officer’s review of an applicant’s factors, circumstances, and evidence, in the totality of the circumstances. These hypotheticals are not meant to be exhaustive or all-inclusive with respect to the scenarios that may give rise to a public charge inadmissibility finding; rather they are illustrative of the process and are not meant to dictate the outcome of any particular case.

Although a USCIS officer may encounter similar fact patterns as those presented in the scenarios below, an officer may reasonably reach a different conclusion than what is described below in consideration of the totality of the individual’s circumstances. Public charge inadmissibility determinations are made in the totality of circumstances for each individual case, on a case-by-case basis.

Additionally, for purposes of the following hypothetical scenarios, it is assumed that:

- The applicant is applying for adjustment of status before USCIS and is otherwise eligible for the benefit;

- The applicant submitted the required forms and all other required supporting evidence; and

- The facts asserted are supported by evidence in the record.

Scenario 1

The applicant is a single, 25-year-old, recent college graduate living with their parent, and is currently unemployed. Their parent is currently supporting the applicant financially, and these are the only two individuals in the applicant’s household. The household’s income and net worth (assets minus liabilities) are relatively low. A sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA was submitted on behalf of the applicant. There is no information in the record to show that the applicant is receiving or has received public benefits, or has any Class A or Class B medical conditions.

The officer evaluates each of the factors USCIS considers in a public charge inadmissibility determination, and concludes that the factors do not indicate that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence. For example, the applicant’s record of current unemployment, in the totality of the circumstances, does not outweigh the other factors and considerations. As a result, the officer finds in the totality of the circumstances that the applicant has met their burden of demonstrating they are not inadmissible underINA 212(a)(4).

Scenario 2

The applicant is a single 35-year-old with no evidence of any Class A or Class B medical conditions. The applicant has one child who lives with the applicant. The applicant is a currently employed high school graduate, with moderate household income and relatively low household net worth. A sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA was submitted on behalf of the applicant. There is evidence in the record that the applicant received public cash assistance for income maintenance for a period of 1 year, over 10 years ago.

The officer evaluates each of the factors USCIS considers as part of the public charge inadmissibility determination, including the recency, amount, and duration of the past receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance. The officer determines that the alien’s combination of factors does not show that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence, in part because the applicant is currently employed, and their receipt of public cash assistance was neither recent nor long in duration. As a result, the officer finds in the totality of the circumstances that the applicant has met their burden of demonstrating that they are not inadmissible underINA 212(a)(4).

Scenario 3

The applicant is a single 55-year-old, living alone, with no evidence of a Class A or Class B medical condition. The applicant is an unemployed college graduate who has not been employed for over a decade with low income arising solely from receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance, and low household net worth. A sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA was submitted on behalf of the applicant. The applicant indicated that they are currently receiving public cash assistance for income maintenance and have been receiving such assistance for over 5 years.

The officer evaluated each of the factors USCIS considers in a public charge inadmissibility determination and the officer determined that the combination of factors shows that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence, given that the applicant is currently receiving public cash assistance for income maintenance, has received this benefit for an extended period of time, and has demonstrated no prospect of obtaining another source of income.

As a result, even though the applicant has a sufficient Affidavit of Support under Section 213A of the INA and is in good health, the officer finds in the totality of the circumstances that the applicant has not met their burden of demonstrating they are not inadmissible underINA 212(a)(4). The officer finds that the applicant is inadmissible under INA 212(a)(4).

H2: C. Summary: Step by Step Determination of Public Charge Inadmissibility

The officer should examine all facts and circumstances of the applicant’s case when evaluating inadmissibility for public charge.[19]The officer should follow the steps in the table below to determine inadmissibility.

TABLE:
Step | If Yes, then … | If No, then … | For More Information
Step 1: Is the applicant subject the public charge ground of inadmissibility? | Go to Step 2. | Not inadmissible based on the public charge ground.[20] | See Chapter 3, Applicability [8 USCIS-PM G.3].
Step 2: Is the applicant required to submit an Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A (Form I-864 or Form I-864EZ)? | Go to Step 3. | Go to Step 4. | Chapter 6, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA [8 USCIS-PM G.6].
Step 3: Was the Form I-864 (or Form I-864EZ) submitted and determined sufficient by the officer? | Go to Step 4. | Inadmissible based on the public charge ground. | 
Step 4: Was the application postmarked (or, if applicable, submitted electronically) on or after December 23, 2022? | Go to Step 5. | Follow the 1999 Interim Field Guidance for adjudication. | Chapter 1, Purpose and Background, Section C, Scope [8 USCIS-PM G.1(C)].
Step 5: After reviewing the applicable forms[21]and evidence, is the applicant likely at any time to become a public charge based on the totality of the circumstances? | Go to Step 6. | Not inadmissible based on the public charge ground. | Chapter 5, Statutory Minimum Factors [8 USCIS-PM G.5] through Chapter 7, Consideration of Current and/or Past Receipt of Public Cash Assistance for Income Maintenance or Long-term Institutionalization at Government Expense [8 USCIS-PM G.7].
Step 6: Is a waiver of inadmissibility available? | The officer may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) to the applicant to provide them an opportunity to request a waiver, unless already requested.If the waiver is approved, the applicant may be admitted despite the public charge ground of inadmissibility. The officer should continue with the adjudication of the application. | Inadmissible based on the public charge ground. Go to Step 7. | Chapter 9, Adjudicating Public Charge Inadmissibility for Adjustment of Status Applications [8 USCIS-PM G.9]Chapter 8, Waivers of Inadmissibility Based on Public Charge Ground [8 USCIS-PM G.8].
Step 7: Does USCIS offer the applicant for adjustment of status who is inadmissible only on account of public charge the opportunity to post a public charge bond? | The officer issues a NOID, notifying the applicant that the applicant may submit a public charge bond. Proceed to Step 8. | The applicant is inadmissible on the public charge ground. The officer may issue a NOID or deny the application in accordance with USCIS policy. | Chapter 10, Public Charge Bonds [8 USCIS-PM G.10]
Step 8: Was a proper and suitable bond posted on behalf of the applicant? | The applicant may be admitted despite inadmissibility based on the public charge ground. The officer should continue with the adjudication of the application. | The applicant is inadmissible on the public charge ground. The officer should deny the application. | Chapter 11, Public Charge Bonds: Posting and Accepting Bonds [8 USCIS-PM G.11]

Go to Step 5.

The officer may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) to the applicant to provide them an opportunity to request a waiver, unless already requested.

If the waiver is approved, the applicant may be admitted despite the public charge ground of inadmissibility. The officer should continue with the adjudication of the application.

Chapter 9, Adjudicating Public Charge Inadmissibility for Adjustment of Status Applications [8 USCIS-PM G.9]

Chapter 8, Waivers of Inadmissibility Based on Public Charge Ground [8 USCIS-PM G.8].

H2: D. Decision

H3: 1. Request for Evidence or Notice of Intent to Deny

If the initial evidence submitted by the applicant does not establish eligibility or ineligibility, USCIS may issue an RFE or NOID to request more information or evidence from the applicant in accordance with USCIS policy.[22]

If a NOID is issued, the officer must provide an explanation of the consideration of all the factors and why the officer believes that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence, based on the consideration of the totality of the applicant’s circumstances. If an officer is basing a decision in whole or in part on information of which the applicant is unaware or could not reasonably be expected to be aware, the officer must issue a NOID.[23]

H3: 2. Not Inadmissible Based on Public Charge Ground

If, after reviewing the application for adjustment of status and supporting evidence, the officer finds that the applicant is not likely to at any time become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence based on the consideration of the totality of applicant’s circumstances, then the officer should determine that the applicant is not inadmissible based on the public charge ground. The officer should continue with the adjudication.

H3: 3. Inadmissible Based on Public Charge Ground

If, after reviewing the application for adjustment of status and supporting evidence, the officer finds that the applicant is likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence, then the officer should determine that the applicant is inadmissible under the public charge ground.

In this case, the officer should determine whether the applicant may be eligible to apply for a waiver or whether to offer the applicant the opportunity to post a public charge bond.[24]If the applicant is ineligible to apply for a waiver and USCIS has decided not to offer the applicant an opportunity to post a public charge bond, then the applicant is inadmissible under the public charge ground and therefore, ineligible for adjustment of status and the officer either issues a NOID or denies the benefit request in accordance with USCIS policy.[25]

Waiver

If the applicant is eligible to apply for a waiver, the officer should inform the applicant through the issuance of an RFE or NOID in accordance with USCIS policy.[26]If the applicant submits a waiver and the waiver is approved, the applicant is no longer inadmissible under the public charge ground, and the officer should continue with the adjudication of the adjustment of status application, in accordance with the guidance.

Bond

If an applicant for adjustment of status is inadmissible based on the public charge ground, and USCIS offers, as a matter of discretion, the applicant an opportunity to post a public charge bond,[27]the officer must issue a NOID in accordance with USCIS policy.[28]

If the applicant posts the public charge bond as instructed in the NOID and USCIS accepts the bond, the officer should continue with the adjudication of the immigration benefit request, in accordance with the guidance.

Denial

USCIS officers must articulate the reasons for a finding of inadmissibility under the public charge ground based on the totality of the circumstances in the denial decision issued to the applicant.[29]Every written denial decision issued by USCIS based on the totality of the circumstances analysis must reflect consideration of each of the factors[30]in the public charge inadmissibility determination (other than an Affidavit of Support Under 213A of the INA when not required) and specifically articulate the reasons for the officer’s determination.[31]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 212(a)(4). See8 CFR 212.22(b).

[^ 2]SeeINA 212(a)(4)(B). See Chapter 5, Statutory Minimum Factors [8 USCIS-PM G.5].

[^ 3]See87 FR 55472, 55497  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022) (final rule).

[^ 4]Applying for a public benefit on one’s own behalf or on behalf of another does not constitute receipt of public benefits by such alien, and approval for future receipt of a public benefit on one’s own behalf or on behalf of another does not constitute receipt of public benefits. See8 CFR 212.21(d).

[^ 5]For more information about the consideration of an alien’s totality of the circumstances, see Chapter 4, Prospective Determination Based on the Totality of the Circumstances [8 USCIS-PM G.4].

[^ 6]See8 CFR 212.21(d).

[^ 7]See8 CFR 212.21(d). See87 FR 55472, 55497  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022) (final rule).

[^ 8]See87 FR 55472, 55566  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022) (final rule).

[^ 9]See87 FR 55472, 55566  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022) (final rule).

[^ 10]SeeINA 212(a)(4)(A).

[^ 11]See8 CFR 212.21(b).

[^ 12]See87 FR 55472, 55524-25  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022).

[^ 13]See87 FR 55472, 55538  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022) (final rule). This consideration is consistent with how USCIS considers long-term institutionalization for all applicants. For more information, see Chapter 7, Consideration of Current and/or Past Receipt of Public Cash Assistance for Income Maintenance or Long-term Institutionalization at Government Expense, Section C, Long-term Institutionalization at Government Expense, Subsection 1, Home and Community-Based Services [8 USCIS PM-G.7(C)(1)] and Subsection 2, Institutionalization in Violation of Federal Law [8 USCIS-PM G.7(C)(2)].

[^ 14]See87 FR 55472, 55524-25  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022).

[^ 15]SeeINA 212(a)(4)(A).

[^ 16]The total number of active-duty service members is publicly available in the form of a “strength summary” on the U.S. Department of War (DOW)’s Defense Manpower Data Center’sDOW Personnel, Workforce Reports & Publicationswebpage. USCIS does not consider the receipt of SNAP benefits, which are sometimes utilized by service members and their families, in the public charge inadmissibility determination. Additionally, aliens must generally be lawful permanent residents (LPRs) in order to join the U.S. military and LPRs are only subject to the public charge ground of inadmissibility in limited circumstances. See the USA.govJoin the Militarywebpage. However, under the Military Accessions Vital to National Interest (MAVNI) program, certain aliens who were asylees, refugees, temporary protected status beneficiaries, deferred action beneficiaries, or nonimmigrants in certain categories could enlist. The then-U.S. Department of Defense ceased recruiting service members through the MAVNI program in 2016. See Chapter 3, Applicability, Section A, Applicants for Admission, Subsection 3, Certain Lawful Permanent Residents Returning to the United States [8 USCIS-PM G.3(A)(3)].

[^ 17]For a list of those exempted from the public charge ground of inadmissibility, see8 CFR 212.23and Chapter 3, Applicability [8 USCIS-PM G.3].

[^ 18]See87 FR 55472, 55563  (PDF)(Sept. 9, 2022).

[^ 19]SeeINA 212(a)(4).

[^ 20]Self-petitioners under the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) must request an exemption from the Form I-864 requirement when filing their Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485) but are not subject to the public charge inadmissibility ground. SeeINA 212(a)(4)(E)(i). Self-petitioning VAWA applicants (and their derivatives) are therefore not inadmissible under the public charge ground and officers do not make a public charge inadmissibility determination once they determine the applicant qualifies for the exemption.

[^ 21]IncludingForm I-485,Form I-864orForm I-864EZ, and Report of Immigration Medical Examination and Vaccination Record (Form I-693). Officers may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) to the applicant to provide them an opportunity to submit additional evidence.

[^ 22]See8 CFR 103.2(b)(8)(i). Generally, USCIS issues written notices in the form of an RFE or NOID to request missing initial or additional evidence. However, USCIS has the discretion to deny a benefit request without issuing an RFE or NOID. See8 CFR 103.2(b)(8)(iii). For more information, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)], and Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 9, Rendering a Decision, Section B, Denials, Subsection 1, Denials Based on Lack of Legal Basis [1 USCIS-PM E.9(B)(1)].

[^ 23]See8 CFR 103.2(b)(16)(i). See8 CFR 103.2(b)(8)(iv).

[^ 24]For more information, see Chapter 8, Waivers of Inadmissibility Based on Public Charge Ground [8 USCIS-PM G.8] and Chapter 10, Public Charge Bonds [8 USCIS-PM G.10].

[^ 25]See8 CFR 103.2(b)(8)(iii). See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)].

[^ 26]See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)].

[^ 27]In accordance with8 CFR 213.1.

[^ 28]See8 CFR 103.2(b)(8)(iii). See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)].

[^ 29]See8 CFR 212.22(c). See8 CFR 103.3(a)(1)(i). For more information about the consideration of the totality of the circumstances, see Chapter 4, Prospective Determination Based on the Totality of the Circumstances [8 USCIS-PM G.4].

[^ 30]See8 CFR 212.22(a).

[^ 31]See8 CFR 212.22(c)and8 CFR 212.22(a). For more information about the factors considered in a public charge inadmissibility determination, see Chapter 5, Statutory Minimum Factors [8 USCIS-PM G.5], Chapter 6, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA [8 USCIS-PM G.6], and Chapter 7, Consideration of Current and/or Past Receipt of Public Cash Assistance for Income Maintenance or Long-term Institutionalization at Government Expense [8 USCIS-PM G.7].

H2: Resources

10 U.S.C. 504(b)- Citizenship or residency

15 U.S.C. 1681- Congressional findings and statement of purpose

21 U.S.C. 802- Definitions

21 U.S.C. 841- Prohibited acts A

22 CFR 40.51- Labor certification

29 CFR 570- Child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation

29 U.S.C. 213(c)- Child labor requirements

31 U.S.C. 9304-9308- Surety corporations

42 CFR 34.4- Medical notifications

42 U.S.C. 1382c                                           (PDF)- Definitions

42 U.S.C. 413- Quarter and quarter of coverage

42 U.S.C. 416(l)- Retirement age

7 CFR 273- Certification of eligible households

8 CFR 1.2- Definitions

8 CFR 1.3- Lawfully present aliens for purposes of applying for Social Security benefits

8 CFR 1003.14- Jurisdiction and commencement of proceedings

8 CFR 1003.1- Organization, jurisdiction, and powers of the Board of Immigration Appeals

8 CFR 103.6- Immigration bonds

8 CFR 204.5- Petitions for employment-based immigrants

8 CFR 212.4- Applications for the exercise of discretion under section 212(d)(1) and 212(d)(3)

8 CFR 213a- Affidavits of support on behalf of immigrants

8 CFR 235- Inspection of persons applying for admission

8 CFR 245.11- Adjustment of aliens in S nonimmigrant classification

8 CFR 292- Representation and appearances

8 U.S.C. 1601-1646- Restricting welfare and public benefits for aliens

8 U.S.C. 1611                                           (PDF)- Aliens who are not qualified aliens ineligible for Federal public benefits

8 U.S.C. 1612                                           (PDF)- Limited eligibility of qualified aliens for certain Federal programs

8 U.S.C. 1613                                           (PDF)- Five-year limited eligibility of qualified aliens for Federal means-tested public benefit

8 U.S.C. 1641                                           (PDF)- Definitions

Final Specification of Community Programs Necessary For Protection Of Life Or Safety Under Welfare Reform Legislation,66 FR 3613 (Jan. 16, 2001) (Final rule)

INA 101- Definitions

INA 101(a)(15)- Nonimmigrant classifications

INA 201- Worldwide level of immigration

INA 203- Allocation of immigrant visas

INA 208- Asylum

INA 212(a)(4), 8 CFR 212.20-212.23 - Public charge inadmissibility

INA 212(d)- Temporary admission of nonimmigrants

INA 213,8 CFR 213.1- Admission of aliens on giving bond or undertaking; return upon permanent departure; adjustment of status of aliens on submission of a public charge bond

INA 213A,8 CFR 213a- Requirements for sponsor's declaration of financial support

INA 235- Inspection by immigration officers; expedited removal of inadmissible arriving aliens; referral for hearing

INA 237(a)(5)- Public charge (deportable aliens)

INA 239,8 CFR 239- Initiation of removal proceedings

INA 245(j)- Adjustment to permanent resident status

INA 245,8 CFR 245- Adjustment of status of nonimmigrant to that of person admitted for permanent residence

INA 248,8 CFR 248- Change of nonimmigrant classification

INA 289- Application to American Indians born in Canada

Pub. L. 104-193                                           (PDF)- Title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996

Pub. L. 104-208                                        (PDF)- Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996

Pub. L. 106-395                                           (PDF)- Child Citizenship Act of 2000

Pub. L. 111-293                                           (PDF)- Help Haitian Adoptees Immediately to Integrate Act of 2010

Pub. L. 111-8                                            (PDF)- Section 602(b), Title VI of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009

Pub. L. 113-4                                           (PDF)- 127 Stat 54 of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013

Pub. L. 89-732                                        (PDF)- Cuban Refugees Adjustment of Status

Section 11,26 Stat 1084                        (PDF)of the Immigration Act of 1891

Section 212(a)(15),66 Stat 163                                           (PDF), 183 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952

Sections 1-2,22 Stat 214                        (PDF)of the Immigration Act of 1882

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-130, Petition for Alien Relative

I-134, Declaration of Financial Support

I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status

I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility

I-693, Report of Medical Examination and Vaccination Record

I-864, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA

I-864A, Contract Between Sponsor and Household Member

I-864EZ, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

Public Charge Inadmissibility, USCIS National Engagement (Sept. 29, 2022) Power Point Presentation                   (PDF, 1.24 MB)

H2: Appendices

Appendix: Applicability of INA 212(a)(4) to Employment-Based Adjustment of Status Applications

Appendix: Applicability of INA 212(a)(4) to Family-Based Adjustment of Status Applications

Appendix: Applicability of INA 212(a)(4) to Other Applicants

Appendix: Applicability of INA 212(a)(4) to Refugee, Asylee, and Parolee Adjustment of Status Applications

Appendix: Applicability of INA 212(a)(4) to Special Immigrant Adjustment of Status Applications

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update incorporates changes consistent with the newest form editions of the Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status (Form I-485) and Confirmation of Valid Offer or Request for Job Portability Under INA Section 204(j) (Form I-485 Supplement J), published on December 10, 2024. This update removes certain references to the Request for Exemption for Intending Immigrant’s Affidavit of Support (Form I-864W), directs applicants how to request an exemption from the Form I-864 requirement when filing their adjustment of status application, and updates references to the newly retitled Form I-485, Supplement J.

7 USCIS-PM E.5-Chapter 5 - Job Portability after Adjustment Filing and Other AC21 Provisions

8 USCIS-PM G.6-Chapter 6 - Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA

8 USCIS-PM G.9-Chapter 9 - Adjudicating Public Charge Inadmissibility for Adjustment of Status Applications

This technical update incorporates into Volume 8 the policy guidance that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced December 19, 2022, addressing the public charge ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), as implemented by the Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility Final Rule,87 FR 55472                    (PDF)(Sep. 9, 2022).

This guidance became effective December 23, 2022, and applies to adjustment of status applications postmarked (or filed electronically, if applicable) on or after that date. For applications postmarked (or submitted electronically, if applicable) before December 23, 2022, USCIS will continue to apply the public charge ground of inadmissibility consistent with the statute and the1999 Interim Field Guidance.

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the public charge ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), as implemented by the Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility Final Rule,87 FR 55472                    (PDF)(Sep. 9, 2022).

The new final rule and policy guidance become effective December 23, 2022, and apply to adjustment of status applications postmarked (or filed electronically, if applicable) on or after that date. For applications postmarked (or submitted electronically, if applicable) before December 23, 2022, USCIS will continue to apply the public charge ground of inadmissibility consistent with the statute and the1999 Interim Field Guidance.

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

This technical update to Volume 8 alerts readers to the September 9, 2022 publication of the Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility Final Rule,87 FR 55472                    (PDF), and clarifies that USCIS will continue to apply the 1999 Interim Field Guidance until the final rule goes into effect on December 23, 2022. For more information about how USCIS is applying the public charge ground of inadmissibility, see thePublic Charge Resourceswebpage.

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

USCIS is administering the public charge inadmissibility statute (section 212(a)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act) consistent with the 1999 Interim Field Guidance to determine whether a noncitizen is inadmissible as likely at any time to become a public charge. The 1999 Interim Field Guidance is the policy that was in place before the 2019 Public Charge Final Rule was implemented. The 2019 Public Charge Final Rule is no longer in effect. For more information about how USCIS is applying the public charge ground of inadmissibility, see thePublic Charge Resourceswebpage.

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update removes the guidance in Volume 2, Part A, Chapter 4, Volume 8, Part G, and Volume 12, Part D, Chapter 2 relating to the administration of the public charge ground of inadmissibility under theInadmissibility on Public Charge Groundsfinal rule, 84 FR 41292 (Aug. 14, 2019); as amended byInadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds; Correction, 84 FR 52357 (Oct. 2, 2019) ( “Public Charge Final Rule”), which was implemented on Feb. 24, 2020. On Nov. 2, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated the Public Charge Final Rule nationwide. On Nov. 3, 2020, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued an administrative stay and, on Nov. 19, 2020, a stay pending appeal of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ Nov. 2, 2020 decision. On Mar. 9, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit lifted its stay and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ order vacating the Public Charge Final Rule went into effect. USCIS immediately stopped applying the Public Charge Final Rule to all pending applications and petitions that would have been subject to the rule. For information on related litigation affecting implementation, see theInadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds Final Rule: Litigationwebpage.

2 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay, Change of Status, and Extension of Petition Validity

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

12 USCIS-PM D.2-Chapter 2 - Lawful Permanent Resident Admission for Naturalization

This technical update removes the WA Food Assistance Program for Legal Immigrants from the list of examples of state, local, and tribal cash assistance programs that are considered income maintenance for purposes of the public charge inadmissibility determination.

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

Note: On Nov. 2, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated the Public Charge Final Rule nationwide. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit later issued a stay of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ Nov. 2, 2020 decision. On Mar. 9, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit lifted the stay and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ order vacating the Public Charge Final Rule went into effect. USCIS immediately stopped applying the Public Charge Final Rule to all pending applications and petitions that would have been subject to the rule. For information on related litigation affecting implementation, see theInadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds Final Rule: Litigationwebpage. The alert text below and related guidance are no longer in effect.

This update incorporates into Volumes 2, 8, and 12 policy guidance that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced February 5, 2020, implementing the Inadmissibility of Public Charge Grounds Final Rule. This guidance is in effect as of February 24, 2020 and applies nationwide to all applications and petitions postmarked on or after that date. Certain classes of aliens are exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility (such as refugees, asylees, certain VAWA self-petitioners, U petitioners, and T applicants) and therefore, are not subject to the Final Rule. For more information about the classes of [noncitizens] who are exempt from the Final Rule, see theappendicesrelated to applicability. For information on related litigation affecting implementation, see theUSCIS webpageon the injunction.

2 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay, Change of Status, and Extension of Petition Validity

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

12 USCIS-PM D.2-Chapter 2 - Lawful Permanent Resident Admission for Naturalization

Note: On Nov. 2, 2020, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated the Public Charge Final Rule nationwide. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit later issued a stay of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ Nov. 2, 2020 decision. On Mar. 9, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit lifted the stay and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois’ order vacating the Public Charge Final Rule went into effect. USCIS immediately stopped applying the Public Charge Final Rule to all pending applications and petitions that would have been subject to the rule. For information on related litigation affecting implementation, see theInadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds Final Rule: Litigationwebpage. The alert text below and related guidance are no longer in effect.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the final rule on the public charge ground of inadmissibility. This policy guidance is effective on February 24, 2020, and will apply to all applicants and petitioners filing applications and petitions for adjustment of status, extension of stay, and change of status, except for applicants and petitioners in the State of Illinois, whose cases will be adjudicated under prior policy, including the1999 Interim Field Guidance                   (PDF)andAFM Ch. 61.1                  (PDF). For additional information, seePublic Charge Inadmissibility Determinations in Illinois. Certain classes of aliens are exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility (such as refugees, asylees, certain VAWA self-petitioners, U petitioners, and T applicants) and therefore, are not subject to the Inadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds final rule. For more information about the classes of [noncitizens] who are exempt from the final rule, see theappendicesrelated to applicability.

2 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay, Change of Status, and Extension of Petition Validity

8 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Public Charge Ground of Inadmissibility

12 USCIS-PM D.2-Chapter 2 - Lawful Permanent Resident Admission for Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization