H1: Chapter 9 - Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination

- Guidance

- Resources (3)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (10)

H2: A. Feedback

Information on providing feedback is available on the USCIS website, including on theContact UsandFeedback Opportunitieswebpages.

H3: 1. USCIS Contact Center

Through a brief and confidential survey solicited by email from the USCIS Contact Center, USCIS collects feedback on benefit requestors’ interactions with the agency. USCIS sends the survey to any benefit requestor who interacts with the Contact Center, including by phone, live chat, or secure message.

H3: 2. In-Person Appointments

Benefit requestors may provide feedback by asking to talk to a supervisor, if available, while at the in-person appointment.

Benefit requestors may submit fraud, waste, and abuse allegations directly to DHS’s Office of Inspector General (OIG). USCIS posts information on reporting fraud and employee misconduct on theContact Uswebpage and in the waiting rooms of USCIS field offices.

H3: 3. USCIS Website

USCIS collects feedback on the website by offering visitors an optional survey. USCIS regularly reviews the results of the survey and identifies opportunities to improve the USCIS website. USCIS also conducts analysis and performs research such as usability testing and focus groups to make improvements to the website. The data also informs USCIS where resources might best be used to improve overall satisfaction.

H2: B. Complaints[1]

H3: 1. Ways to Submit Complaints

Complaint in USCIS Office

Persons can make a complaint in a USCIS office by asking to speak to a supervisor. In these situations, a supervisor must be made available within a reasonable amount of time. The supervisor should take the complainant’s name and information about the nature of the complaint. The supervisor should attempt to resolve the issue before the complainant leaves the office.

Submit Written Complaint

Written complaints may include handwritten letters, emails, or faxes.[2]

Contact Office of Inspector General Directly[3]

Contact information for DHS Office of Inspector General (OIG) can be found on both the USCIS website and on the DHS website. OIG contact information must also be displayed in a public area and visible in every USCIS field office.

File Complaint with USCIS Headquarters

USCIS Headquarters (HQ) contact information is provided on USCIS’ website. If the complaint is directed to the wrong directorate or program office, the complaint must be forwarded to the appropriate HQ entity.

Ask to Speak to Contact Center Supervisor

If a caller is dissatisfied with the service received during a call to the USCIS Contact Center, the caller may ask to speak to a supervisor.[4]

H3: 2. Complaints Received

A person should not be expected to know where to first submit a complaint or how to elevate a complaint if they think that their issue has not been adequately addressed. Under no circumstances should a person’s complaint be dismissed or disregarded because the proper process for filing a complaint was not followed. All complaints received must be handled appropriately.

All complaints should be responded to by providing a written response, telephone call, or if applicable, addressing the complaint in person upon submission. The response should explain steps taken to resolve the issue. In cases where the complaint cannot be resolved in a reasonable time, the response should acknowledge the receipt of the complaint, when a resolution is expected, and any additional action the person may take.

Applicants with complaints about being victimized by a person engaged in the unauthorized practice of immigration law (UPIL) should be directed toUSCIS’ websitewhere they can find state-by-state reporting information, as well as information on how to report UPIL to the Federal Trade Commission.

H2: C. Allegations of Misconduct

USCIS employees are also subject to mandatory reporting requirements for known or suspected misconduct by federal employees and contractors.

H3: 1. Employee Misconduct

Allegations of misconduct by USCIS employees and contractors may include, but are not limited to:

- Fraud, corruption, bribery, and embezzlement;

- Sexual advances or sexual misconduct;

- Theft or misuse of funds and theft of government property;

- Perjury;

- Physical assault;[5]

- Unauthorized release of classified or special protected class[6]information;

- Drug use or possession;

- Unauthorized use or misuse of sensitive official government databases;

- Misuse of official position for private gain;

- Misuse of a government vehicle or property;

- Failure to properly account for government fund;

- Unauthorized use or misuse of a government purchase or travel card;

- Falsification of travel documents; and

- Falsification of employment application documents.

H3: 2. Reporting Employee Misconduct

Benefit requestors and other interested parties should report allegations of misconduct by USCIS employeespromptly to a USCIS supervisor, USCIS Office of Investigations (OI), or DHS OIG.[7]Individuals may report allegations of misconduct involving discriminatory conduct to DHS Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL).[8]

USCIS OI makes every effort to maintain the confidentiality of informational sources to protect the integrity of the investigation. However, for investigations in which an allegation is substantiated and disciplinary action is proposed, the subject of such investigation is entitled to review documentation and evidence relied upon as the basis for the proposed action.

OI refers matters to DHS OIG for review and investigative determination as required, depending on the nature of the allegations included in the report. If the allegation either does not meet the criteria for referral to DHS OIG or is not accepted by DHS OIG for investigation, OI may resolve the matter by conducting an investigation; referring the matter for an official management inquiry, if appropriate; or referring the matter to the appropriate USCIS manager for information and action deemed appropriate.

As a matter of procedure, OI does not provide a complainant, victim, witness, or subject of a complaint with the investigative determination of a complaint, since a disclosure of this nature could adversely impact the investigative process or agency resolution of the alleged behavior.

H2: D. Allegations of Discrimination

H3: 1. Anti-Discrimination Policy

USCIS does not tolerate discriminatory treatment of any persons. USCIS considers discrimination to include the unlawful treatment of a person or group of persons based on classes or other categories to which they belong or are perceived to belong. It also includes retaliation against a person who reports or complains about discrimination, or who participates in the investigation of a discrimination complaint. It is USCIS policy to treat the public in a non-discriminatory manner regardless of whether they belong to a class or group specifically protected under federal anti-discrimination laws or other legal authorities.

USCIS policy on anti-discrimination is not limited to specific classes or groups. This policy prohibits discrimination by any USCIS employee[9]towards any benefit requestor,[10]other USCIS employee, or anyone else with whom USCIS employees interact by virtue of their work for USCIS.

In addition to training employees on the administration of immigration benefits, USCIS provides agency-wide training on USCIS’ anti-discrimination policy to all employees who interact directly or indirectly with members of the public.

H3: 2. Reporting Discrimination

Benefit requestors and other interested parties should report allegations of discrimination, including those based on race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or disability, promptly to a USCIS supervisor or to DHS CRCL; allegations may also be reported to USCIS OI or DHS OIG.[11]Individuals may report allegations of discrimination involving physical assault (such as grabbing, fondling, hitting, or shoving) to OI or DHS OIG.[12]USCIS employees also have a duty to report allegations of misconduct by federal employeesand contractors promptly to a USCIS supervisor, USCIS OI, or DHS OIG.[13]

H3: 3. Retaliation

USCIS does not tolerate retaliation against any person for reporting discrimination. This includes filing a complaint, helping any other person file a complaint, or participating in an inquiry into potential violations of this policy. Any employee found to have engaged in retaliatory conduct or behavior is subject to disciplinary action.

H2: E. Reporting Fraud, Abuse, and Scams

Benefit requestors and other interested parties should report fraud, abuse, and scams as indicated on theUSCIS Contact Uspage.

In addition, immigration fraud can be reported to:

- Immigration and Customs Enforcement;

- Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division;

- The Federal Trade Commission; and

- State authorities.

The USCIS website also contains information oncommon scamsandhow to avoid scams.

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]This section specifically addresses complaints that do not involve egregious or criminal misconduct. For information on the Office of Security and Integrity’s policy on reporting criminal and egregious misconduct, see Section C, Allegations of Misconduct [1 USCIS-PM A.9(C)].

[^ 2]SeeAppendix: Dissatisfaction with USCIS: Terms and Definitionsfor information on where to send complaints.

[^ 3]SeeAppendix: Dissatisfaction with USCIS: Terms and Definitionsfor information on how to contact the OIG.

[^ 4]See Chapter 3, Types of Assistance, Section C, Telephone [1 USCIS-PM A.3(C)].

[^ 5]Physical assault may include grabbing, fondling, hitting, or shoving.

[^ 6]See Chapter 7, Privacy and Confidentiality [1 USCIS-PM A.7].

[^ 7]Members of the public may file allegations of misconduct by following the instructions provided on theReport USCIS Employee Misconductwebpage. USCIS employees are also subject to mandatory reporting requirements for known or suspected misconduct by federal employees and contractors. In addition, see theDHS Office of Inspector Generalwebpage.

[^ 8]See Section D, Allegations of Discrimination [1 USCIS-PM A.9(D)].

[^ 9]For the purposes of this anti-discrimination policy, USCIS considers the term “USCIS employee” to include both persons employed directly by the federal government and government contractors.

[^ 10]In accordance with DHS policy, USCIS may use race or ethnicity only when a compelling governmental interest is present, and only in a way narrowly tailored to meet that compelling interest. This policy further permits consideration of nationality when it is expressly relevant to the administration or enforcement of a statute, regulation, or Executive Order, or for individualized discretionary use of nationality as a screening, investigation, or enforcement factor. See DHS Memorandum,The Department of Homeland Security’s Commitment to Nondiscriminatory Law Enforcement and Screening Activities  (PDF), issued April 26, 2013.

[^ 11]See the DHSMake a Civil Rights Complaintwebpage. TheDHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Libertieswebpage also contains detailed information about avenues for filing complaints with different offices and components of DHS.

[^ 12]See Section C, Allegations of Misconduct [1 USCIS-PM A.9(C)].

[^ 13]See Section C, Allegations of Misconduct [1 USCIS-PM A.9(C)].

H2: Resources

INA 103,8 CFR 103- Powers and duties of the Secretary, the Under Secretary, and the Attorney General

Report Misconduct (Office of Inspector General)

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

TABLE:
Category and Definition | Examples and Contact Information
ComplaintAny communication received by USCIS expressing dissatisfaction with USCIS. Complaints can be categorized as either “case-specific” or “non-case-specific.”[1]Case-specific complaints directly relate to cases processed by USCIS.Non-case-specific complaints refer to any dissatisfaction with USCIS that does not relate to a specific case. | Case-Specific ComplaintsCases outside normal processing times (ONPT)Inaccurate or incomplete responses to case-related inquiriesCase processing errorsConfusion regarding a notice or correspondence sent by USCISNon-Case-Specific ComplaintsRude treatment by USCIS employees or contractorsFacility-related issuesDifficulty understanding forms, notices, instructions, or other general informationAdministration of immigration laws or USCIS policiesContact InformationUSCIS offices, in-person or by mail. SeeFind a USCIS Officepage on the USCIS website.USCIS Contact CenterPhone: 1-800-375-5283 (TTY: 1-800-767-1833)
MisconductActions of a USCIS employee or contractor that can be considered extreme or outrageous, including, but not limited to, criminal activity.[2] | Fraud, corruption, bribery, or embezzlementPerjury or falsification of documents or informationPhysical assault or inappropriate conductUnauthorized release of classified information or unauthorized use or misuse of official government systemsMisuse of official position for private gainTheft or misuse of government funds, vehicles, badges, credentials, secure forms, sensitive property, or other propertyArrest of an employee or contractor by law enforcement personnelContact InformationDHS Office of Inspector General (OIG)Phone: 1-800-323-8603; Fax: 202-254-4297Mail: DHS, OIG/MAIL STOP 0305Attn: Office of Investigations – Hotline245 Murray Lane, SWWashington, DC 20528-0305USCIS Office of Security and Integrity (OI)Fax: 202-233-2453Mail: Office of InvestigationsAttn: Intake MS 2275U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services633 Third Street NW, 3rd Floor, Suite 350Washington, DC 20529-2275

Complaint

Any communication received by USCIS expressing dissatisfaction with USCIS. Complaints can be categorized as either “case-specific” or “non-case-specific.”[1]

Case-specific complaints directly relate to cases processed by USCIS.

Non-case-specific complaints refer to any dissatisfaction with USCIS that does not relate to a specific case.

Case-Specific Complaints

- Cases outside normal processing times (ONPT)

- Inaccurate or incomplete responses to case-related inquiries

- Case processing errors

- Confusion regarding a notice or correspondence sent by USCIS

Non-Case-Specific Complaints

- Rude treatment by USCIS employees or contractors

- Facility-related issues

- Difficulty understanding forms, notices, instructions, or other general information

- Administration of immigration laws or USCIS policies

Contact Information

USCIS offices, in-person or by mail. SeeFind a USCIS Officepage on the USCIS website.

USCIS Contact CenterPhone: 1-800-375-5283 (TTY: 1-800-767-1833)

Misconduct

Actions of a USCIS employee or contractor that can be considered extreme or outrageous, including, but not limited to, criminal activity.[2]

- Fraud, corruption, bribery, or embezzlement

- Perjury or falsification of documents or information

- Physical assault or inappropriate conduct

- Unauthorized release of classified information or unauthorized use or misuse of official government systems

- Misuse of official position for private gain

- Theft or misuse of government funds, vehicles, badges, credentials, secure forms, sensitive property, or other property

- Arrest of an employee or contractor by law enforcement personnel

Contact Information

DHS Office of Inspector General (OIG)Phone: 1-800-323-8603; Fax: 202-254-4297

Mail: DHS, OIG/MAIL STOP 0305Attn: Office of Investigations – Hotline245 Murray Lane, SWWashington, DC 20528-0305

USCIS Office of Security and Integrity (OI)Fax: 202-233-2453

Mail: Office of InvestigationsAttn: Intake MS 2275U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services633 Third Street NW, 3rd Floor, Suite 350Washington, DC 20529-2275

H3: Footnotes

[^ 1]See Volume 1, Public Services, Chapter 9, Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination [1 USCIS-PM A.9].

[^ 2]See Volume 1, Public Services, Chapter 9, Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination [1 USCIS-PM A.9].

H2: Updates

This technical update makes minor changes to the Policy Manual to remove an obsolete alert box and to conform with changes to the USCIS website.

1 USCIS-PM A.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

1 USCIS-PM A.8-Chapter 8 - Conduct in USCIS Facilities

1 USCIS-PM A.9-Chapter 9 - Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with current case assistance and feedback avenues.

1 USCIS-PM A.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

1 USCIS-PM A.2-Chapter 2 - Web-Based Information

1 USCIS-PM A.3-Chapter 3 - Types of Assistance

1 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Service Request Management Tool

1 USCIS-PM A.7-Chapter 7 - Privacy and Confidentiality

1 USCIS-PM A.9-Chapter 9 - Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination

1 USCIS-PM A.10-Chapter 10 - Changes of Address

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to further clarify its anti-discrimination policy pertaining to USCIS employees and contractors interacting directly or indirectly with members of the public.

1 USCIS-PM A.6-Chapter 6 - Disability Accommodation Requests

1 USCIS-PM A.8-Chapter 8 - Conduct in USCIS Facilities

1 USCIS-PM A.9-Chapter 9 - Feedback, Complaints, Misconduct, and Discrimination

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is revising its policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with the Fee Schedule and Changes to Certain Other Immigration Benefit Request Requirements Final Rule, published in the Federal Register on August 3, 2020. This guidance becomes effective October 2, 2020. For information regarding implementation, seeAppendix: 2020 Fee Rule Litigation Summary.

1 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Public Services

1 USCIS-PM B-Part B - Submission of Benefit Requests

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

7 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Adjustment of Status Policies and Procedures

7 USCIS-PM F-Part F - Special Immigrant-Based Adjustment

7 USCIS-PM M-Part M - Asylee Adjustment

11 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Secure Identity Documents Policies and Procedures

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding services USCIS provides to the public, including general administration of certain immigration benefits, online tools, and up-to-date information.

1 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Public Services

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance on its standards in customer service.

1 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Public Services