H1: Chapter 5 - Project Applications

- Guidance

- Resources (22)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (15)

A designated regional center files an Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise (Form I-956F) (project application) to request approval for each particular investment offering through an associated new commercial enterprise. A regional center must file Form I-956F with USCIS before any investor may file an Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor (Form I-526E) based on their investment in that offering.[1]

Approval of Form I-956F, and in some cases, the former Application for Regional Center Designation Under the Immigrant Investor Program (Form I-924) exemplar approved before enactment of the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, is generally binding for the adjudication of associated petitions.[2]

H2: A. Eligibility

H3: 1. New Commercial Enterprise and Job Creating Entity

A project application describes a particular pooled investment offering through a new commercial enterprise[3]that generally funds a specific capital investment project undertaken by a separate job-creating entity or directly by the new commercial enterprise.

A new commercial enterprise is any for-profit organization formed in the United States for the ongoing conduct of lawful business, including sole proprietorship, partnership (whether limited or general), holding company and its wholly owned subsidiaries (provided that each subsidiary is engaged in a for-profit activity formed for the ongoing conduct of a lawful business), joint venture, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, or other entity (which may be publicly or privately owned) that receives, or is established to receive, capital investment from immigrant investors.[4]

A job-creating entity is any organization formed in the United States for the ongoing conduct of lawful business, including sole proprietorship, partnership (whether limited or general), corporation, limited liability company, business trust, or other entity, which may be publicly or privately owned that receives, or is established to receive, capital investment from immigrant investors or a new commercial enterprise under the Regional Center Program and which is responsible for creating jobs. A job-creating entity may be an entity consisting of a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiaries or affiliates (provided that each subsidiary or affiliate is engaged in an activity formed for the ongoing conduct of a lawful business).[5]

Where a job-creating entity is controlled, managed, or owned by any of the persons involved with the regional center or new commercial enterprise, it is considered an affiliated job-creating entity.[6]

H3: 2. Targeted Employment Area

Regional center investors may take advantage of the reduced required investment amount[7]when investing in an offering into a new commercial enterprise principally doing business[8]in a targeted employment area (TEA).[9]A TEA is a rural area or a high unemployment area.[10]A rural area is any area other than an area:

- Within a standard metropolitan statistical area (MSA) (as designated by the Office of Management and Budget); or

- Within the outer boundary of any city or town having a population of 20,000 or more based on the most recent decennial census of the United States.[11]

For petitions filed on or after March 15, 2022, a high unemployment area is an area designated as such by the Secretary of Homeland Security.[12]

H3: 3. Infrastructure Project

Similar to investment in a TEA, regional center investors filing petitions on or after May 14, 2022, may take advantage of the reduced required investment amount[13]when investing in an offering into a new commercial enterprise that will provide capital to an infrastructure project.[14]An infrastructure project is a capital investment project in a filed or approved business plan in aForm I-956Fproject application, which is administered by a governmental entity (such as a federal, state, or local agency or authority) that is the job-creating entity contracting with a regional center or new commercial enterprise to receive capital investment under the Regional Center Program from investors or the new commercial enterprise for purposes of financing for maintaining, improving, or constructing a public works project.[15]

H3: 4. Job Creation

For regional center investors filing petitions for classification on or after May 14, 2022, up to 90 percent of the employment creation requirement may be satisfied with jobs that are estimated to be created indirectly through investment in a regional center project.[16]USCIS may consider an employee of the new commercial enterprise or job-creating entity to hold a job that has been directly created.[17]A project application may rely on economically and statistically valid methodologies for determining the number of jobs created by the program, including:

- Jobs estimated to have been created directly, which may be verified using such methodologies; and

- Jobs estimated to have been directly or indirectly created through capital expenditures, revenues generated from increased exports, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment resulting from the program.[18]

Construction Activity Lasting Less than 2 Years

When calculating job creation, the following limitations on construction activity lasting less than 2 years apply:

- For indirect job creation purposes, those jobs may satisfy only up to 75 percent of the job creation requirement.[19]

- For direct job creation purposes, the number of such jobs must be calculated by multiplying the total number of such jobs estimated to be created by the fraction of the 2-year period that the construction activity lasts.[20]

Prospective Tenant Jobs

In determining compliance with the job creation requirement, a project application may include jobs estimated to be created under a methodology that attributes jobs to prospective tenants occupying commercial real estate created or improved by capital investments if:

- The number of such jobs estimated to be created has been determined by an economically and statistically valid methodology; and

- Such jobs are not existing jobs that have been relocated.[21]

H2: B. Documentation and Evidence

H3: 1. New Commercial Enterprise

The applicant should provide a description and documentation of the business structure of the new commercial enterprise (NCE) that will be associated with the regional center, such as articles or certificates of formation, bylaws, partnership or LLC agreements, or other formation and governing documents for the NCE.[22]

H3: 2. Comprehensive Business Plan

A project application must include a credible and comprehensive business plan that contains, at a minimum, a description of the business, its products or services (or both), and its objectives.[23]The plan should also identify the form of the investment (for example, equity stake, loan, or some other financial arrangement) from the NCE into the job-creating entity (JCE), if any.

H3: 3. Economic Analysis

An applicant must submit a credible economic analysis regarding estimated job creation that is based upon economically and statistically valid and transparent methodologies.[24]

H3: 4. Investment and Offering Documents

An applicant must submit all investment and offering documents, including:

- Subscription agreements;

- Investment agreements;

- Partnership agreements;

- Operating agreements;

- Private placement memoranda;

- Term sheets;

- Biographies of management, officers, directors, and any person with similar responsibilities;

- The description of the business plan to be provided to potential investors; and

- Marketing materials used, or drafts prepared for use, in connection with the offering.

These documents must also contain references, as appropriate, to various statutorily required information.[25]

H3: 5. Securities-Related Documentation and Certifications

An applicant must include a description of the policies and procedures, such as those related to internal and external due diligence, reasonably designed to cause the regional center and any associated issuer of securities intended to be offered to investors, to comply with the securities laws of the United States and the applicable states in connection with the offer, purchase, or sale of securities.[26]

The applicant must also provide a certification from the regional center, as well as from any issuer of securities intended to be offered to investors in connection with the relevant capital investment project, regarding their securities law compliance.[27]The certifier must certify, to the best of their knowledge and after a due diligence investigation, that their respective agents and employees, and any parties associated with them are in compliance with the securities laws of the United States and the laws of the applicable states in connection with the offer, purchase, or sale of securities described in the project application.[28]

H3: 6. High Unemployment Area Designation

A high unemployment area is an area designated as such by USCIS that is comprised of the census tract or tracts in which the new commercial enterprise is principally doing business, which may also include certain adjacent census tract or tracts, and in which the weighted average unemployment rate of the tract or tracts is at least 150 percent of the national average rate.[29]

To demonstrate that the project is based on an investment in a high unemployment area, if applicable, an applicant must submit a listing of the census tract (or contiguous census tracts) where the new commercial enterprise will be principally doing business, as well as any directly adjacent census tracts used in the calculation to demonstrate that the area is a high unemployment area.[30]

The calculation should use reliable, internally consistent, and verifiable data to calculate the unemployment rate. For example, if the regional center uses data from the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) to determine the unemployment rate for the requested area, the applicant should also rely on ACS data to determine the national unemployment rate to which the area identified is compared.[31]

A designation will be in effect for the 2-year period beginning on the date on which theForm I-956Fproject application was filed.[32]The designation may be renewed for additional 2-year periods if the area continues to meet applicable criteria for designation as a high unemployment area.[33]

H3: 7. Rural Area

To demonstrate that a project is based on an investment in a rural area, if applicable, an applicant should provide evidence, such as a map or other representation of the project area, to demonstrate that the new commercial enterprise is principally doing business in a rural area.[34]

H3: 8. Infrastructure Project Designation

To demonstrate that a project is an infrastructure project, if applicable, an applicant should provide evidence, such as the contract between the regional center or new commercial enterprise and the JCE, to demonstrate that the JCE is administered by a governmental entity (such as a federal, state, or local agency or authority) and will receive capital investment from investors or the new commercial enterprise for the purpose of financing for maintaining, improving, or constructing a public works project.[35]

H2: C. Adjudication

H3: 1. Approval

If the applicant properly filed the application and the applicant has met the required eligibility standards, the officer approves the application.

Approval ofForm I-956Fis binding for the adjudication of associated petitions seeking classification or removal of conditions based on investments in the same offering, absent:

- Fraud, misrepresentation, or criminal misuse;

- A threat to public safety or national security;

- A material change that affects eligibility;

- The discovery of other evidence affecting program eligibility that was not disclosed during the adjudication process; or

- A material mistake of law or fact.[36]

The approval of an initial or amendmentForm I-924based on an exemplar[37]Immigrant Petition by Alien Investor (Form I-526) filed before enactment of the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022[38]is also binding absent the above circumstances.

However, if a regional center seeks new investors who will file for classification under the new provisions added by the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022 through an offering described in a previously approved Form I-924 exemplar, the regional center must file a Form I-956F to show compliance with the new statutory requirements. All aspects of the previously approved Form I-924 exemplar will remain binding for purposes of the related Form I-956F adjudication except to the extent superseded by new requirements added by the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022.

A change made to a business plan, or any other aspect of the approved Form I-924 exemplar, to comply with the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, will not be considered a material change.[39]

H3: 2. Denial

If the applicant has not established eligibility for the benefit sought, the officer denies the application. The officer should write the denial in clear and comprehensive language and cover all grounds for denial.[40]In the denial, the officer should refer to the controlling statute or regulations and to any relevant precedent or adopted decisions. The decision must include information about the applicant’s right to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office and the opportunity to file a motion to reopen or reconsider.

USCIS may deny an application if USCIS determines, in its discretion, that it was predicated on or involved fraud, deceit, intentional material misrepresentation, or criminal misuse[41]or that the approval of such application is contrary to the national interest of the United States for reasons relating to threats to public safety or national security.[42]

H2: D. Amendments

A regional center should file an amendment to an approved project application that reflects changes to any information, documents, or other aspects of the investment offering described in such approved application no later than 30 days after any such changes.[43]

Upon the approval of a timely filed amendment to an approved application, any changes reflected in such amendment may be incorporated into and considered in determining eligibility of:

- Pending petitions from immigrants investing in the offering described in the approved application who are seeking classification under the Regional Center Program; and

- Petitions to remove conditions on residence.[44]

H2: E. Revocations and Sanctions

USCIS may revoke the approval of an application if it determines, in its discretion, that the application was predicated on or involved fraud, deceit, intentional material misrepresentation, or criminal misuse[45]or that the approval of such application is contrary to the national interest of the United States for reasons relating to threats to public safety or national security.[46]

USCIS may temporarily or permanently suspend or debar a new commercial enterprise or job-creating entity, or any individual or business entity associated with those entities, for specified statutory violations, such as knowingly involving an individual or entity who does not meet the statutory bona fides requirements, by failing to take commercially reasonable efforts to discontinue the prohibited individual or entity's involvement, or provide notice to USCIS within 14 days of acquiring such knowledge.[47]

Additional information on the process for issuing sanctions appears in Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8].

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i).

[^ 2]For more information on the binding nature of project applications, see Section C, Adjudication, Subsection 1, Approval [6 USCIS-PM G.5(C)(1)].

[^ 3]For more information on new commercial enterprises, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section C, New Commercial Enterprise [6 USCIS-PM G.2(C)].

[^ 4]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(vi).

[^ 5]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(v).

[^ 6]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(i).

[^ 7]For more information on the required investment amounts, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section A, Investment of Capital, Subsection 3, Required Amount of Investment [6 USCIS-PM G.2(A)(3)].

[^ 8]For more information on what is considered principally doing business, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section A, Investment of Capital, Subsection 5, Targeted Employment Area [6 USCIS-PM G.2(A)(5)].

[^ 9]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(C).

[^ 10]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(viii). For more information on TEAs as they existed before March 15, 2022, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section A, Investment of Capital, Subsection 5, Targeted Employment Area [6 USCIS-PM G.2(A)(5)].

[^ 11]See8 CFR 204.6(e)  (PDF). SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(vii).

[^ 12]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(B)(ii). For more information on the evidence required to demonstrate that an area qualifies as a high unemployment area, see Section B, Documentation and Evidence, Subsection 6, High Unemployment Area Designation [6 USCIS-PM G.5(B)(6)].

[^ 13]For more information on the required investment amounts, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section A, Investment of Capital, Subsection 3, Required Amount of Investment [6 USCIS-PM G.2(A)(3)].

[^ 14]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(C).

[^ 15]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(iv).

[^ 16]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iv)(I).

[^ 17]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iv)(I).

[^ 18]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(v)(I).

[^ 19]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iv)(II).

[^ 20]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(v)(II)(cc).

[^ 21]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(v)(II)(aa).

[^ 22]See the instructions forForm I-956F.

[^ 23]For more information on comprehensive business plans, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section B, Comprehensive Business Plan [6 USCIS-PM G.2(B)].

[^ 24]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i)(II).

[^ 25]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i)(IV).

[^ 26]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(V).

[^ 27]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i)(VI).

[^ 28]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i)(VI).

[^ 29]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(B)(ii)(I).

[^ 30]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(B)(ii). For more information on suggested evidence that may meet the statutory definition, see the instructions forForm I-956F.

[^ 31]For more information on suggested evidence that may meet the statutory definition, see the instructions forForm I-956F.

[^ 32]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(A)(ii)(IV)(aa).

[^ 33]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(A)(ii)(IV)(bb).

[^ 34]For the definition of rural, see Section A, Eligibility, Subsection 2, Targeted Employment Area [6 USCIS-PM G.5(A)(2)].

[^ 35]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(D)(iv).

[^ 36]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(ii). See the September 1, 2022, settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California inBehring Regional Center LLC and IIUSA v. Mayorkas, et al., 3:22-cv-02487-VC (N.D. Cal. Aug. 24, 2022), and EB5 Capital, et al., v. Dept. of Homeland Security, et al., 3:22-cv-3948-VC (N.D. Cal. Aug. 24, 2022).

[^ 37]The term exemplar referred to a sample Immigrant Petition by Alien Investor (Form I-526) filed with Form I-924 for an actual project. Before March 15, 2022, this type of regional center proposal contained copies of the commercial enterprise’s organizational and transactional documents, which USCIS reviewed to determine if they were in compliance with applicable eligibility requirements.

[^ 38]See the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022,Pub. L. 117-103  (PDF), 136 Stat. 49, 1070 (March 15, 2022).

[^ 39]See the September 1, 2022, settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California inBehring Regional Center LLC and IIUSA v. Mayorkas, et al., 3:22-cv-02487-VC (N.D. Cal. Aug. 24, 2022), and EB5 Capital, et al., v. Dept. of Homeland Security, et al., 3:22-cv-3948-VC (N.D. Cal. Aug. 24, 2022).

[^ 40]See8 CFR 103.3(a)(1)(i).

[^ 41]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(O)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 42]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(N)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 43]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(iii)(I).

[^ 44]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(iii)(II).

[^ 45]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(O)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 46]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(N)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 47]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(iv).

H2: Resources

8 CFR 216.3- Termination of conditional permanent resident status

INA 201- Worldwide level of immigration

INA 202- Numerical limitations on individual foreign states

INA 203- Allocation of immigrant visas

INA 203(b)(5),8 CFR 204.6                    (PDF)- Employment creation immigrants

INA 204(a)(1)(H)- Procedure for granting immigrant status

INA 204,8 CFR 204- Procedure for granting immigrant status

INA 216A,8 CFR 216.6- Conditional permanent resident status for certain alien entrepreneurs, spouses, and children

Pub. L. 117-103                    (PDF)- Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022 - Division BB - EB–5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion

I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status

I-526, Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor

I-526E, Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor

I-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status

I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification

I-956, Application for Regional Center Designation

I-956F, Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise

I-956G, Regional Center Annual Statement

I-956H, Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

The content in this appendix reflects USCIS policy as it existed before the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022,Pub.L. 117-103              (PDF), 136 Stat. 49, 1070 (March 15, 2022) for reference. For current USCIS policy on regional centers, see Chapter 4, Regional Center Applications [6 USCIS-PM G.4], Chapter 5, Project Applications [6 USCIS-PM G.5], and Chapter 6, Direct and Third Party Promoters [6 USCIS-PM G.6].

The goal of the Regional Center Program is to stimulate economic growth in a specified geographic area. The regional center model can offer an immigrant investor already defined investment opportunities, thereby reducing the immigrant investor’s responsibility to identify acceptable investment vehicles. If the new commercial enterprise is located within the geographic area, and falls within the economic scope of the defined regional center, reasonable methodologies can be used to demonstrate indirect job creation.[1]A regional center can be associated with one or more new commercial enterprises.

A regional center seeking to participate in the Regional Center Program must submit a proposal using the Application For Regional Center Under the Immigrant Investor Program (Form I-924).

USCIS may designate a regional center based on a general proposal for the promotion of economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, or increased domestic capital investment. The statute further provides that a regional center shall have jurisdiction over a limited geographic area, which shall be described in the proposal and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.

In addition, the establishment of a regional center may be based on general predictions, contained in the proposal, concerning the kinds of commercial enterprises that will receive capital from immigrant investors, the jobs that will be created directly or indirectly as a result of such capital investments, and the other positive economic effects such capital investments will have on the area.[2]

The regulations state that the proposal must:

- Clearly describe how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth through increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment;

- Provide in verifiable detail how jobs will be created directly or indirectly;

- Provide a detailed statement regarding the amounts and sources of capital which have been already committed to the regional center;

- Provide a description of the promotional efforts taken and planned by the sponsors of the regional center;

- Include a detailed prediction[3]how the regional center will have a positive impact on the regional or national economy based on factors such as increased household earnings, greater demand for business services, utilities, maintenance and repair, and construction both within and without the regional center; and

- Be supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, analyses of foreign and domestic markets for the goods or services to be exported, or multiplier tables.[4]

Clearly describe how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth through increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment;

Provide in verifiable detail how jobs will be created directly or indirectly;

Provide a detailed statement regarding the amounts and sources of capital which have been already committed to the regional center;

Provide a description of the promotional efforts taken and planned by the sponsors of the regional center;

Include a detailed prediction[3]how the regional center will have a positive impact on the regional or national economy based on factors such as increased household earnings, greater demand for business services, utilities, maintenance and repair, and construction both within and without the regional center; and

Be supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, analyses of foreign and domestic markets for the goods or services to be exported, or multiplier tables.[4]

The level of verifiable detail required for a Form I-924 to be approved and provided deference may vary depending on the nature of the application filing.[5]

H2: A. Regional Center Application Proposals

The regional center proposal must include a management and operational plan to administer, oversee, and manage the proposed regional center, including but not limited to how the regional center:

- Will be promoted to attract immigrant investors, including a description of the budget for promotional activities;

- Will identify, assess, and evaluate proposed immigrant investor projects and enterprises;

- Characterizes the structure of the investment capital it will sponsor; for example, whether the investment capital to be sought for job-creating companies will consist solely of immigrant investor capital or a combination of immigrant investor capital and domestic capital, and how the distribution of the investment capital will be structured (for example, loans to developers or venture capital); and

- Will oversee all investment activities affiliated with, through, or under the sponsorship of the proposed regional center.

Will be promoted to attract immigrant investors, including a description of the budget for promotional activities;

Will identify, assess, and evaluate proposed immigrant investor projects and enterprises;

Characterizes the structure of the investment capital it will sponsor; for example, whether the investment capital to be sought for job-creating companies will consist solely of immigrant investor capital or a combination of immigrant investor capital and domestic capital, and how the distribution of the investment capital will be structured (for example, loans to developers or venture capital); and

Will oversee all investment activities affiliated with, through, or under the sponsorship of the proposed regional center.

Geographic Area

An officer reviews the proposed geographic boundaries of a new regional center to determine if they are acceptable. USCIS considers geographic boundaries acceptable if the regional center applicant can establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the proposed economic activity will promote economic growth in the proposed area.[6]The determination is fact-specific, and the law does not require any particular form of evidence, such as a county-by-county analysis.

In addition, a regional center’s geographic area must be limited, contiguous, and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.[7]To demonstrate that the proposed geographic area is limited, the regional center applicant should submit evidence demonstrating the linkages between proposed economic activities within the proposed area based on different variables. Examples of variables to demonstrate linkages between economic activities can include but are not limited to:

- Regional connectivity;

- The labor pool and supply chain; and

- Interdependence between projects.

Regional connectivity;

The labor pool and supply chain; and

Interdependence between projects.

Moreover, in assessing the likelihood that the proposed economic activity will promote economic growth in the proposed geographic area, an officer reviews the impact of the activity relative to relevant economic conditions. The size of the proposed area should be limited and consistent with the scope and scale of the proposed economic activity, as the regional center applicant is required to focus on a geographical region of the United States.[8]The regional center applicant must present an economic analysis of its proposed economic activity in the proposed geographic area that is supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools.[9]The Form I-924 instructions provide further information regarding the requirements of the economic analysis.

H2: B. Types of Regional Center Projects

An actual project refers to a specific project proposal that is supported by aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan.[10]

A hypothetical project refers to a project proposal that is not supported by aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan.

The term exemplar refers to a sample Immigrant Petition by Alien Investor (Form I-526), filed with Form I-924 for an actual project. This type of regional center proposal contains copies of the commercial enterprise’s organizational and transactional documents, which USCIS reviews to determine if they are in compliance with established eligibility requirements.

H3: 1. Hypothetical Projects

If the Form I-924 projects are hypothetical projects, general proposals and general predictions may be sufficient to determine that the proposed regional center will more likely than not promote economic growth, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment. A regional center applicant seeking review of a hypothetical project should clarify in the Form I-924 submission that the project is hypothetical. General proposals and predictions may include a description of the project parameters, such as:

- Proposed project activities, industries, locations, and timelines;

- A general market analysis of the proposed job creating activities and explanation regarding how the proposed project activities are likely to promote economic growth and create jobs; and

- A description, along with supporting evidence, of the regional center principals’ relevant experience and expertise.

Proposed project activities, industries, locations, and timelines;

A general market analysis of the proposed job creating activities and explanation regarding how the proposed project activities are likely to promote economic growth and create jobs; and

A description, along with supporting evidence, of the regional center principals’ relevant experience and expertise.

While hypothetical project submissions are sufficient for regional center designation, previous determinations based on hypothetical projects will not receive deference. Actual projects will receive a de novo officer review during subsequent filings (for example, through the adjudication of an amended Form I-924 application, including the actual project details or the first Form I-526 immigrant investor petition).

Organizational and transactional supporting documents are not required for a hypothetical project. If a regional center applicant desires a compliance review of organizational and transactional documents, the application must include an actual project with aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan and an exemplar immigrant investor petition.

H3: 2. Actual Projects

Applications for regional center designation based on actual projects may require more details than a hypothetical project to demonstrate that the proposal contains verifiable details and is supported by economically or statistically sound forecasting tools. A regional center applicant seeking review of an actual project should clarify in the Form I-924 submission that the project is actual.

Actual projects require aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant comprehensive business plan that provides verifiable detail on how jobs will be created. Absent fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legal deficiency,[11]USCIS defers to prior determinations based on actual projects when evaluating subsequent filings under the project involving the same material facts and issues.

Organizational and transactional documents for the new commercial enterprise are not required. If a regional center applicant desires review of organizational and transactional documents for program compliance, the regional center application must be accompanied by an exemplar Form I-526 immigrant investor petition.

If regional center applicants opt not to file a Form I-924 amendment, the investor should identify his or her Form I-526 immigrant investor petition as an actual project being presented for the first time. Additionally, the immigrant petition should contain an affirmative statement signed by a regional center principal confirming that the regional center is aware of the specific project being presented for the first time as part of the immigrant investor petition.

In cases where the regional center application is filed based on actual projects that do not contain sufficient verifiable detail, USCIS may approve the projects as hypothetical projects if they contain the requisite general proposals and predictions. The projects approved as hypotheticals, however, do not receive deference in subsequent filings.

In cases where some projects are approvable as actual projects, and others are not approvable or only approvable as hypothetical projects, the approval notice should identify which projects have been approved as actual projects and will be accorded deference. The approval notice should also identify projects that have been approved as hypothetical projects but will not be accorded deference.

H3: 3. Exemplar Filings

Regional center applications, based on actual projects, including a Form I-526 immigrant investor exemplar petition, require more details than a hypothetical or actual project submitted without an exemplar. A regional center applicant seeking review of an exemplar should state that the project is an actual project with a Form I-526 exemplar.

Exemplar filings require aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant comprehensive business plan that provides verifiable detail on how jobs will be created, as well as organizational and transactional documents for the new commercial enterprise.

Absent fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legal deficiency, officer determinations based on exemplar filings are accorded deference in subsequent filings under the project with the same material facts and issues.

While an amended Form I-924 is not required to perfect a hypothetical project once the actual project details are available, some applicants may choose to file an amended Form I-924 application with a Form I-526 exemplar to obtain a favorable determination. These exemplar filings are accorded deference in subsequent related filings, absent material change, fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legally deficient determination.

H2: C. Regional Center Annual Reporting

Designated regional centers must file a Supplement to Form I-924 (Form I-924A) annually that demonstrates continued eligibility for designation as a regional center in the EB-5 Program.[12]The regional center must file the form within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year (between October 1 and December 29). The Form I-924A instructions specifically list required information that must be submitted.[13]

If the regional center fails to file the required annual report, USCIS issues a Notice of Intent to Terminate (NOIT) to the regional center for failing to provide the required information. This may ultimately result in the termination of the regional center’s designation if the regional center fails to respond or does not file a response which adequately demonstrates continued eligibility.

H2: D. Regional Center Amendments

Because businesses’ strategies constantly evolve, with new opportunities identified and existing plans improved, a regional center may amend a previously approved designation. The Form I-924 instructions provide information regarding the submission of regional center amendment requests.[14]

To improve processing efficiencies and predictability in subsequent filings, many regional centers may seek to amend the Form I-924 approval to reflect changes in economic analysis and job creation estimates. Such amendments, however, are not required in order for individual investors to proceed with filing the immigrant petitions or petitions to remove conditions on residence based on the additional jobs created, or to be created, in additional industries.

Formal amendments to an approved regional center’s designation are not required when a regional center changes its industries of focus, business plans, or economic methodologies; however, a regional center may find it advantageous to seek USCIS approval of such changes before they are adjudicated in individual immigrant investor petitions.

Requests to Change Geographic Area

When a regional center requests to expand its geographic area, the proposed geographic area must be limited, contiguous, and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.[15]​

Any requests for geographic area expansion made on or after February 22, 2017 are adjudicated under the current guidance in the Form I-924 instructions which requires that a Form I-924 amendment must be filed, and approved, to expand the regional center’s geographic area. The Form I-924 amendment must be approved before an I-526 petitioner may demonstrate eligibility at the time of filing his or her petition based on an investment in the expanded area.

If the regional center’s geographic area expansion request was submitted either through a Form I-924 amendment or Form I-526 petition filed prior to February 22, 2017, and the request is ultimately approved, USCIS will continue to adjudicate additional Form I-526 petitions associated with investments in that area under prior policy guidance issued on May 30, 2013.[16]That policy did not require a formal amendment to expand a regional center’s geographic area, and permitted concurrent filing of the Form I-526 prior to approval of the geographic area amendment.

H2: E. Termination of a Regional Center Designation

USCIS issues a NOIT if:

- USCIS determines that a regional center no longer serves the purpose of promoting economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment; or

- The regional center fails to submit required information to USCIS.[17]

USCIS determines that a regional center no longer serves the purpose of promoting economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment; or

The regional center fails to submit required information to USCIS.[17]

The NOIT will provide the grounds for termination and provide at least 30 days from receipt of the NOIT for the regional center to respond to the allegations in the NOIT. The regional center may offer evidence to contest the allegations in the NOIT. If the regional center overcomes the allegations in the NOIT, USCIS issues a Notice of Reaffirmation that affirms the regional center’s designation.

If the regional center fails to overcome the allegations in the NOIT, USCIS terminates the regional center’s participation in the Regional Center Program. In this case, USCIS notifies the regional center of the termination, the reasons for termination, and the right to file a motion, appeal, or both. The regional center may appeal the decision to USCIS’ Administrative Appeals Office within 30 days after service of notice (33 days, if the notice was mailed).[18]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]For a definition of indirect jobs, see Chapter 2, Eligibility Requirements, Section D, Creation of Jobs, Subsection 4, Measuring Job Creation [6 USCIS-PM G.2(D)(4)].

[^ 2]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended.

[^ 3]An applicant can submit a general prediction which addresses the prospective impact of the capital investment projects sponsored by the regional center, regionally or nationally. See Form I-924 instructions.

[^ 4]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3).

[^ 5]For more information about the types of regional center projects, see Section B, Types of Regional Center Projects [6 USCIS-PM G.3(B)].

[^ 6]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3)(i) (requiring a clear description of how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth).

[^ 7]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended.

[^ 8]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3)(i).

[^ 9]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3).

[^ 10]See Chapter 2, Eligibility Requirements, Section B, Comprehensive Business Plan [6 USCIS-PM G.2(B)].

[^ 11]Legal deficiency includes objective mistakes of law or fact made as part of the USCIS adjudication.

[^ 12]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

[^ 13]See Form I-924A instructions.

[^ 14]See Form I-924 instructions.

[^ 15]For a discussion of an officer’s review of a regional center’s proposed geographic area, see Section A, Regional Center Application Proposals [6 USCIS-PM G.3(A)].

[^ 16]See EB-5 Adjudication Policy Memo, PM-602-0083, issued May 30, 2013.

[^ 17]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

[^ 18]See 8 CFR 103.3. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the new provisions added to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) by the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022 (RIA) relating to the consequences to regional centers, new commercial enterprises, job creating entities, and investors for noncompliance in the EB-5 program.

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.8-Chapter 8 - Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to continue to incorporate statutory reforms of the Regional Center Program as they relate to regional center designation and other requirements for immigrant investors.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

This technical update to Volume 6 clarifies the Policy Manual alert boxes published on April 27, 2022 relating to the recent EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, which authorizes an EB-5 Immigrant Investor Regional Center Program and includes various implementation effective dates for the program. On June 24, 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Mayorkas, et al, 3:22-cv-02487, issued a preliminary injunction enjoining USCIS “from treating as deauthorized the previously designated regional centers.” The April 27, 2022 alert remains posted for historical purposes.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

This technical update to Volume 6 alerts readers to the passage of the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, which authorizes an EB-5 Immigrant Investor Regional Center Program and includes various implementation effective dates for the program. The alert boxes refer readers to uscis.gov for the latest information on the implementation of that law. In addition, this update reserves and moves all of the content in Chapter 3 (Regional Center Designation, Reporting, Amendments, and Termination) to an appendix (Regional Center Program Prior to March 15, 2022) as Congress repealed that program.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

This technical update to Volume 6 removes references to the period of time for which the Petition by Investor to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status (Form I-829) receipt notice shows proof of conditional permanent resident status.

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

This technical update explains that on June 22, 2021, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Wolf, 20-cv-09263-JSC, vacated theEB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule                             (PDF). While USCIS considers this decision, USCIS will apply the EB-5 regulations and policies that were in effect before the rule was finalized on November 21, 2019.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

7 USCIS-PM A.6-Chapter 6 - Adjudicative Review

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is revising its policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with the EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule, published on July 24, 2019, and effective November 21, 2019.Note: On June 22, 2021, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Wolf, 20-cv-09263-JSC, vacated theEB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule                            (PDF). While USCIS considers this decision, USCIS will apply the EB-5 regulations and policies that were in effect before the rule was finalized on November 21, 2019.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

7 USCIS-PM A.6-Chapter 6 - Adjudicative Review

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding a regional center’s geographic area, requests to expand the geographic area, and how such requests impact the filing of Form I-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance regarding the documentation of conditional permanent resident (CPR) status for employment-based fifth preference (EB-5) immigrants.

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating the USCIS Policy Manual to provide further guidance regarding the job creation and capital at risk requirements for Form I-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur, and Form I-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance regarding the eligibility requirements for regional centers and immigrant investors.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors