H1: Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

- Guidance

- Resources (14)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (11)

H2: A. Educational Requirements

An officer administers a naturalization test to determine whether an alien meets the English and civics requirements.[1]The naturalization test consists of two components:

- English language proficiency, which is determined by the alien’s ability to read, write, speak and understand English; and

- Knowledge of U.S. history and government, which is determined by a civics test.

An alien has two opportunities to pass the English and civics tests: the initial examination and the re-examination interview. USCIS denies the naturalization application if the alien fails to pass any portion of the tests after two attempts. In cases where an alien requests a USCIS hearing on the denial, officers must administer any failed portion of the tests.[2]

Unless excused by USCIS, the alien’s failure to appear at the re-examination for testing or to take the tests at an examination or hearing counts as a failed attempt to pass the test.

H2: B. Exceptions

An alien may qualify for an exception from the English requirement, civics requirement, or both requirements. The table below serves as a quick reference guide on the exceptions to the English and civics requirements for naturalization.

TABLE:
Exceptions [INA 312(b)] | English Educational Requirements:Read, write, speak, and understand | Civics Educational Requirements:Knowledge of U.S. history and government
Age 50 or older and resided in the United States as a lawful permanent resident (LPR) for at least 20 years at time of filing | Exempt | Still required. Aliens may take civics test in their language of choice using an interpreter.
Age 55 or older and resided in the United States as an LPR for at least 15 years at time of filing | Exempt
Age 65 or older and resided in the United States as an LPR for at least 20 years at time of filing | Exempt | Still required but officers administer specially designated test forms. Aliens may take the civics test in their language of choice using an interpreter.
Medical Disability Exception (Form N-648) | May be exempt from English, civics, or both

English Educational Requirements:

Read, write, speak, and understand

Civics Educational Requirements:

Knowledge of U.S. history and government

H3: 1. Age and Residency Exceptions to English

An alien is exempt from the English language requirement but is still required to meet the civics requirement if:

- The alien is age 50 or older at the time of filing for naturalization and has lived as an LPR in the United States for at least 20 years; or

- The alien is age 55 or older at the time of filing for naturalization and has lived as an LPR in the United States for at least 15 years.

The alien may take the civics test in his or her language of choice with the use of an interpreter.

H3: 2. Special Consideration for Civics Test

An alien receives special consideration in the civics test if, at the time of filing the application, the alien is 65 years of age or older and has been living in the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence.[3]An alien who qualifies for special consideration is administered specific test forms.

H3: 3. Medical Disability Exception to English and Civics

An alien who cannot meet the English and civics requirements because of a medical disability may be exempt from the English requirement, the civics requirement, or both requirements.

H2: C. Meeting Requirements under IRCA 1986

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) mandated that persons legalized underINA 245Ameet a basic citizenship skills requirement in order to be eligible for adjustment to LPR status. An alien was permitted to demonstrate basic citizenship skills by:

- Passing the English and civics tests administered by legacy Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS); or

- Passing standardized English and civics tests administered by organizations then authorized by the INS.[4]

At the time of the naturalization re-examination, the officer only retests the alien on any portion of the test that the applicant did not satisfy under IRCA. In all cases, the alien must demonstrate the ability to speak English at the time of the naturalization examination, unless the alien meets one of the age and time as resident exemptions of English or qualifies for a medical waiver.[5]

H2: D. English Portion of the Test

An alien applying for naturalization must only demonstrate an ability to read, write, speak, and understand words in ordinary usage.[6]Ordinary usage means comprehensible and pertinent communication through simple vocabulary and grammar, which may include noticeable errors in pronouncing, constructing, spelling, and understanding completely certain words, phrases, and sentences.

An alien may ask for words to be repeated or rephrased and may make some errors in pronunciation, spelling, and grammar and still meet the English requirement for naturalization. An officer should repeat and rephrase questions until the officer is satisfied that the alien either fully understands the question or is unable to understand English.[7]

H3: 1. Speaking Test

An officer determines an alien’s ability to speak and understand English based on the alien's ability to respond to questions normally asked in the course of the naturalization examination. The officer’s questions relate to eligibility and include questions provided in the naturalization application.[8]The officer should repeat and rephrase questions during the naturalization examination until the officer is satisfied that the alien either understands the questions or does not understand English.

An alien who does not qualify for a waiver of the English requirement must be able to communicate in English about his or her application and eligibility for naturalization. An alien does not need to understand every word or phrase on the application.

Passing the Speaking Test

If the alien generally understands and responds meaningfully to questions relevant to his or her naturalization eligibility, then he or she has sufficiently demonstrated the ability to speak English.

Failing the Speaking Test

An alien fails the speaking test when he or she does not understand sufficient English to be placed under oath or to answer the eligibility questions on his or her naturalization application. The officer must still administer all other parts of the naturalization test, including the portions on reading, writing, and civics.

An officer cannot offer or accept a withdrawal of a naturalization application from an alien who does not speak English unless the alien has an interpreter present who is able to clearly understand the consequences of withdrawing the application.[9]

H3: 2. Reading Test

To sufficiently demonstrate the ability to read in English, aliens must read one sentence out of three sentences. The reading test is administered by the officer using standardized reading test forms. Once the alien reads one of the three sentences correctly, the officer stops the reading test.

Passing the Reading Test

An alien passes the reading test if the alien reads one of the three sentences without extended pauses in a manner that the alien is able to convey the meaning of the sentence and the officer is able to understand the sentence. In general, the alien must read all content words but may omit short words or make pronunciation or intonation errors that do not interfere with the meaning.

Failing the Reading Test

An alien fails the reading test if he or she does not successfully read at least one of the three sentences. An alien fails to read a sentence successfully when he or she:

- Omits a content word or substitutes another word for a content word;​

- Pauses for extended periods of time while reading the sentence; or​

- Makes pronunciation or intonation errors to the extent that the alien is not able to convey the meaning of the sentence and the officer is not able to understand the sentence.

H3: 3. Writing Test

To sufficiently demonstrate the ability to write in English, the alien must write one sentence out of three sentences in a manner that the officer understands. The officer dictates the sentence to the alien using standardized writing test forms. An alien must not abbreviate any of the words. Once the alien writes one of the three sentences in a manner that the officer understands, the officer stops the writing test.

An alien does not fail the writing test because of spelling, capitalization, or punctuation errors, unless the errors interfere with the meaning of the sentence and the officer is unable to understand the sentence.

Passing the Writing Test

The alien passes the writing test if the alien is able to convey the meaning of one of the three sentences to the officer. The alien’s writing sample may have the following:

- Some grammatical, spelling, or capitalization errors;​

- Omitted short words that do not interfere with meaning; or​

- Numbers spelled out or written as digits.

Failing the Writing Test

An alien fails the writing test if he or she makes errors to a degree that the alien does not convey the meaning of the sentence and the officer is not able to understand the sentence.

An alien fails the writing test if he or she writes the following:

- A different sentence or words; ​

- An abbreviation for a dictated word;[10]​

- Nothing or only one or two isolated words; or ​

- A sentence that is completely illegible.

H2: E. Civics Portion of the Test

H3: 1. Civics Test

Aliens applying for naturalization must demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, the principles, and the form of government of the United States (civics).[11]USCIS is committed to administering a test that is an instrument of civic learning and fosters civic assimilation as part of the test preparation process.

Depending on the date an application for naturalization is filed, an alien applying for naturalization may be required to take either the 2008 Naturalization Civics Test or the 2025 Naturalization Civics Test. The percentage of questions required to pass either version of the civics test remains at 60 percent.

Additionally, USCIS updates responses to certain questions on a rolling basis for accuracy. For example, USCIS will update responses because of federal or state elections, certain judicial appointments, or due to statutory changes or updates. When civics test questions are updated, so is the public-facing bank of questions and study materials, if applicable.[12]

2008 Naturalization Civics Test

Aliens who filed a naturalization application before October 20, 2025, must take the 2008 Naturalization Civics Test.

To sufficiently demonstrate knowledge of civics, the applicant must answer correctly at least six out of 10 questions (also called test items) from the standardized civics test form administered by an officer.

The 2008 Naturalization Civics Test contains a bank of 100 questions from which a USCIS system randomly selects the test questions, and an officer administers the test orally.[13]The standardized civics test contains 10 questions. The officer stops the test once the alien correctly answers the minimum number of six questions required to pass the test, or answers five questions incorrectly.

Passing the Civics Test

An applicant passes the civics test if he or she provides a correct answer or provides an alternative phrasing of the correct answer for six of the 10 questions.

Failing the Civics Test

An applicant fails the civics test if he or she provides an incorrect answer or fails to respond to five out of the 10 questions from the standardized test form.

2025 Naturalization Civics Test

Aliens who file a naturalization application on or after October 20, 2025, must take the 2025 Naturalization Civics Test.

To sufficiently demonstrate knowledge of civics, an alien applying for naturalization must pass a civics test by answering at least 12 of 20 questions correctly.

The 2025 Naturalization Civics Test contains a bank of 128 questions from which a USCIS system randomly selects the test questions, and an officer administers the test orally.[14]The standardized civics test contains 20 questions. The officer stops the test once the alien correctly answers the minimum of 12 questions required to pass the test, or answers nine questions incorrectly. Stopping the test after the requisite number of questions is answered either correctly or incorrectly is a departure from the 2020 Naturalization Civics Test. In other respects, the 2025 Naturalization Civics Test remains the same.

Passing the Civics Test

An alien passes the civics test if he or she provides a correct answer or provides an alternative phrasing of the correct answer for at least 12 out of the 20 questions.

Failing the Civics Test

An alien fails the civics test if he or she provides an incorrect answer or fails to respond to nine out of the 20 questions.

H3: 2. Special Consideration

An officer gives special consideration to an alien who is 65 years of age or older and who has been living in the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence.[15]The age and time requirements must be met at the time of filing the naturalization application.

The bank of civics test questions for aliens given special consideration contains 20 specially designated civics questions to study. The civics test for aliens given special consideration contains 10 questions.

- Aliens who filed a naturalization application before October 20, 2025, are given a 10-question test from the 20 specially designated questions on the 2008 Naturalization Civics Test.

- Aliens who file a naturalization application on or after October 20, 2025, are given a 10-question test from the 20 specially designated questions on the 2025 Naturalization Civics Test.

An alien who meets the criteria for special consideration passes the civics test if he or she provides a correct answer or provides an alternative phrasing of the correct answer for at least six of 10 civics test questions from the specially designated list of 20 questions.

H3: 3. Due Consideration

An officer should exercise “due consideration” on a case-by-case basis in choosing subject matters, phrasing questions, and evaluating responses when administering the civics test. The officer’s decision to exercise due consideration should be based on a review of the alien's:

- Age;​

- Background;​

- Level of education;​

- Length of residence in the United States;​

- Opportunities available and efforts made to acquire the requisite knowledge; and​

- Any other relevant factors relating to the alien’s knowledge and understanding.[16]

H2: F. Failure to Meet the English or Civics Requirements

If an alien fails any portion of the English test, the civics test, or all tests during the initial naturalization examination, USCIS reschedules the alien to appear for a second examination between 60 and 90 days after the initial examination.[17]

In cases where the alien appears for a re-examination, the reexamining officer must not administer the same English or civics test forms administered during the initial examination. The officer must only retest the alien in those areas that the alien previously failed. For example, if the alien passed the English speaking, reading, and civics portions but failed the writing portion during the initial examination, the officer must only administer the English writing test during the re-examination.[18]

If an alien fails any portion of the naturalization test a second time, the officer must deny the application based upon the alien’s failure to meet the educational requirements for naturalization. The officer also must address any other areas of ineligibility in the denial notice. An alien who refuses to be tested or to respond to individual questions on the reading, writing, or civics test, or fails to respond to eligibility questions because he or she did not understand the questions as asked or rephrased, fails to meet to the educational requirements. An officer should treat an alien’s refusal to be tested or to respond to test questions as a failure of the test.[19]

H2: G. Documenting Test Results

All officers administering the English and civics tests are required to record the test results in the alien’s A-file. Officers are required to complete and provide to each alien at the end of the naturalization examination the results of the examination and testing, unless the officer serves the applicant with a denial notice at that time.[20]The results of the examination include the results of the English and civics tests.

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]USCIS coordinates with external stakeholders to provide instruction and training materials related to the citizenship educational requirements. USCIS provides these educational materials and a list of all naturalization civics test items to aliens for study through the USCISCitizenship Resource Centersite.

[^ 2]Only one opportunity to pass the failed portion of the tests is provided at the hearing. See Part B, Naturalization Examination, Chapter 6, USCIS Hearing and Judicial Review, Section B, Review of Timely Filed Hearing Request [12 USCIS-PM B.6(B)].

[^ 3]SeeINA 312(b)(3).

[^ 4]SeePub. L. 99-603  (PDF), 100 Stat. 3359, 3396 (November 6, 1986). The INS Standardized Citizenship Testing Program was conducted by five non-government companies on behalf of the INS. That program was established in 1991 and ended on August 30, 1998. See63 FR 25080(May 6, 1998).

[^ 5]SeeINA 245A(b)(1)(D)(iii). See8 CFR 312.3.

[^ 6]SeeINA 312. See8 CFR 312.

[^ 7]See8 CFR 335.2(c).

[^ 8]See8 CFR 312.1(c)(1).

[^ 9]See Part B, Naturalization Examination, Chapter 4, Results of the Naturalization Examination, Section D, Administrative Closure, Lack of Prosecution, Withdrawal, and Applications Not Held in Abeyance [12 USCIS-PM B.4(D)].

[^ 10]An abbreviation for a dictated word may be accepted if the officer has approved the abbreviation.

[^ 11]See8 CFR 312.2.

[^ 12]See theCheck for Test Updateswebpage.

[^ 13]See8 CFR 312.2(c)(1).

[^ 14]See8 CFR 312.2(c)(1).

[^ 15]SeeINA 312(b)(3).

[^ 16]See8 CFR 312.2(c)(2).

[^ 17]See8 CFR 335.3(b)(re-examination no earlier than 60 days from initial examination). See8 CFR 312.5(a)(re-examination no later than 90 days from initial examination).

[^ 18]See8 CFR 312.5.

[^ 19]See8 CFR 312.5(b).

[^ 20]Officers must use Naturalization Interview Results (Form N-652).

H2: Resources

INA 245A(b)(1)(D),8 CFR 245a.17- Meeting English and civics requirements under IRCA 1986

INA 312,8 CFR 312- Educational requirements for naturalization

INA 316,8 CFR 316- General requirements for naturalization

INA 332,8 CFR 332- Naturalization administration, executive functions

INA 335,8 CFR 335- Investigation of applicants, examination of applications

INA 336,8 CFR 336- Hearings on denials of applications for naturalization

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

N-400, Application for Naturalization

N-648, Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions

Citizenship Resource Center: Check for Test Updates

Citizenship Resource Center: Study for the Test

Citizenship Resource Center: The Naturalization Interview and Test

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

Before October 29, 2019, USCIS considered children of members of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employees, who were stationed outside of the United States, to meet the requirement of “is residing in” the United States for the purpose of acquiring citizenship underINA 320.[1]This interpretation was consistent with the definition of “residence” for purposes of naturalization underINA 316.[2]Based on this treatment of U.S. government employees and their children in the context of naturalization under INA 316, USCIS determined that “residing in the United States” for purposes of acquisition of citizenship under INA 320 should likewise be interpreted to include children of U.S. military and government employees stationed outside of the United States who were residing with their parents.[3]

This interpretation, however, was inconsistent with other provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), including the definition of “residence” atINA 101(a)(33)and language inINA 322(a)andINA 322(d), which suggested that the citizenship of military children residing outside of the United States should be considered under that provision rather than under INA 320. Effective October 29, 2019, USCIS amended its policy guidance to address these concerns, and determined that children of members of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employees stationed outside of the United States would not be eligible for citizenship acquisition under INA 320.[4]

On March 26, 2020, the Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act was enacted,[5]amending INA 320, so that a child residing with his or her U.S. citizen parent, who is stationed outside of the United States as a member of the U.S. armed forces or a U.S. government employee, or is residing in marital union with a member of the U.S. armed forces or a U.S. government employee who is stationed outside of the United States, acquires citizenship under INA 320 if all requirements of INA 320(c) and INA 320(a)(1)-(2) are met. In line with the statute, USCIS rescinds its previous guidance, clarifying that these children are eligible to acquire citizenship under INA 320 if all other requirements under INA 320 are met.

The amendment to INA 320 applies to children who were under the age of 18 on March 26, 2020.

H3: Footnotes

[^ 1]Even though the child of a member of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employee stationed outside of the United States may be eligible to apply for a Certificate of Citizenship underINA 322since he or she resides outside of the United States, USCIS interpreted the child to meet residency requirements underINA 320as well, which formerly required the child to be residing in the United States with his or her parent to acquire citizenship.

[^ 2]For example, U.S. government employees, including members of the U.S. armed forces, are eligible to apply for an exception to the continuous residence requirement for naturalization under INA 316 as long as their residency outside of the United States was on behalf of the U.S. government. SeeINA 316(b). SeeINA 316(a). See Part D, General Naturalization Requirements, Chapter 3, Continuous Residence [12 USCIS-PM D.3].

[^ 3]See Policy Manual Technical Update,Child Citizenship Act and Children of U.S. Government Employees Residing Abroad(July 20, 2015); and Acquisition of Citizenship by Children of U.S. Military and Government Employees Stationed Abroad under Section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), No. 103, issued May 6, 2004.

[^ 4]See USCIS Policy Alert, Defining “Residence” in Statutory Provisions Related to Citizenship[PA-2019-05]. This Policy Alert has been superseded by Policy Manual updates to reflect changes made underPub. L. 116-133                                             (PDF).

[^ 5]SeePub. L. 116-133                                             (PDF)(March 26, 2020).

H2: Updates

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to implement the 2020 Naturalization Civics Test with some modifications (“2025 Naturalization Civics Test”), which helps ensure proper assimilation of lawful immigrants into the United States and promote a unified American identity and attachment to the Constitution, laws, and founding principles of the United States. This update also provides clarification on the requirements an alien must demonstrate to sufficiently establish knowledge and understanding of civics as required under section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).

12 USCIS-PM E.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to remove references to the 2020 version of the civics test.

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update incorporates into Volume 12 the policy guidance that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced February 22, 2021, addressing educational requirements for naturalization to demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government, of the United States (civics) under section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). Specifically, USCIS is reverting back to the 2008 version of the civics test, allowing a brief period during which USCIS may also offer the 2020 version of the test to applicants affected by the timing of this update. This guidance became effective March 1, 2021.

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding the educational requirements for naturalization to demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government, of the United States (civics) under section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). Specifically, USCIS is reverting back to the 2008 version of the civics test, allowing a brief period during which USCIS may also offer the 2020 version of the test to applicants affected by the timing of this update. This guidance becomes effective March 1, 2021.

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

This technical update incorporates into Volume 12 the policy guidance that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced November 13, 2020, addressing the educational requirements for naturalization on the knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government, of the United States (civics) under section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. This guidance became effective December 1, 2020.

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding the educational requirements for naturalization on the knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government, of the United States (civics) under section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. This guidance becomes effective December 1, 2020.

12 USCIS-PM E.2-Chapter 2 - English and Civics Testing

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

USCIS is issuing updated and comprehensive citizenship and naturalization policy guidance in the new USCIS Policy Manual.

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization