H1: Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

- Guidance

- Resources (19)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (14)

The goal of the Regional Center Program is to stimulate economic growth in a specified geographic area.[1]Regional centers allow investors to pool their investments with other investors in already defined investment opportunities.

As of May 14, 2022, an entity seeking regional center designation to participate in the Regional Center Program submits a proposal using the Application for Regional Center Designation (Form I-956) accompanied by the Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program (Form I-956H).[2]

As of May 14, 2022, a designated regional center may file an Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise (Form I-956F) to request approval of each particular investment offering through an associated new commercial enterprise.[3]An investor in that offering may file an Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor (Form I-526E)[4]once the regional center has filed the project application. A regional center can be associated with one or more new commercial enterprises and files a Form I-956F for each particular investment offering.

H2: A. Eligibility

A regional center must operate within a defined, contiguous, and limited geographic area as described in the application and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment within such area.[5]The application for regional center designation must demonstrate that the pooled investment will have a substantive economic impact on the proposed geographic area.[6]

H2: B. Documentation and Evidence

In general,Form I-956should include:

- Reasonable predictions, supported by economically and statistically valid and transparent forecasting tools, concerning the amount of investment that will be pooled, the kinds of commercial enterprises that will receive such investments, details of the jobs that will be created directly or indirectly as a result of such investments, and other positive economic effects such investments will have;

- A description of the policies and procedures in place reasonably designed to monitor new commercial enterprises and any associated job-creating entities to seek to ensure compliance with applicable federal and state laws;[7]

- A description of the policies and procedures in place that are reasonably designed to ensure program compliance;

- Form I-956Hfor all persons involved in the regional center, as defined in the following subsection, confirming that all persons involved in the regional center meet applicable requirements;[8]and

- A certification related to securities law compliance.[9]

H3: 1. Persons Involved with the Regional Center Program

In general, and unless USCIS determines otherwise, a person is involved with a regional center, a new commercial enterprise, or any affiliated job-creating entity, as applicable, if the person is, directly or indirectly, in a position of substantive authority to make operational or managerial decisions over pooling, securitization, investment, release, acceptance, or control or use of any funding that was procured under the Regional Center Program. A person may be in a position of substantive authority if the person serves as a principal, a representative, an administrator, an owner, an officer, a board member, a manager, an executive, a general partner, a fiduciary, an agent, or in a similar position at the regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity, respectively.[10]

To be involved with a regional center, the person must be a national or a lawful permanent resident of the United States, and may not be in rescission or removal proceedings.[11]

In addition, no agency, official, or other similar entity or representative of a foreign government entity may provide capital to, or be directly or indirectly involved with the ownership or administration of, a regional center, a new commercial enterprise, or a job-creating entity. However, a foreign or domestic investment fund or other investment vehicle that is wholly or partially owned, directly or indirectly, by a bona fide foreign sovereign wealth fund or a foreign state-owned enterprise otherwise permitted to do business in the United States may be involved with the ownership, but not the administration, of an unaffiliated job-creating entity.[12]

Finally, a person may not be involved with any regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity if the person:

- Has been found to have committed certain offenses;[13]

- Is subject to a final order, for the duration of any penalty imposed by such order, of a state securities commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing similar functions), a state authority that supervises or examines banks, savings associations, or credit unions, a state insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing similar functions), an appropriate federal banking agency, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a financial self-regulatory organization recognized by the SEC, or the National Credit Union Administration, which is based on a violation of certain laws or regulations;[14]

- Is determined by USCIS to be engaged in, has ever been engaged in, or seeks to engage in any illicit trafficking in any controlled substance or in any listed chemical;[15]any activity relating to espionage, sabotage, or theft of intellectual property; any activity related to money laundering;[16]any terrorist activity;[17]any activity constituting or facilitating human trafficking or a human rights offense; any Nazi persecution, genocide, or commission of torture or extrajudicial killing activity;[18]or the violation of any statute, regulation, or Executive Order regarding foreign financial transactions or foreign asset control; or

- Has been, during the preceding 10 years, included on the U.S. Department of Justice'sList of Currently Disciplined Practitioners; or has received a reprimand or has otherwise been publicly disciplined for conduct related to fraud or deceit by a state bar association of which the person is or was a member.[19]

H3: 2. Geographic Area

An applicant should submit a map or illustration of the geographic area, which must be defined, contiguous, and limited. An applicant should also include a list of the geographic components that make up the proposed geographic area of the regional center.[20]

To demonstrate that the proposed geographic area is limited, the regional center applicant should submit evidence demonstrating the linkages between proposed economic activities within the proposed area based on different variables. Examples of variables to demonstrate linkages between economic activities include but are not limited to:

- Regional connectivity;

- The labor pool and supply chain; and

- Interdependence between projects.

Moreover, in assessing the likelihood that the proposed economic activity will have a substantive economic impact[21]on the proposed geographic area, an officer reviews the impact of the activity relative to relevant economic conditions. The size of the proposed area should be limited and consistent with the scope and scale of the proposed economic activity, as the regional center applicant is required to focus on a geographic region of the United States.[22]

H3: 3. Reasonable Predictions

An applicant must submit evidence that the regional center's pooled investment will have a substantive economic impact on the proposed geographic area. The proposal must include reasonable predictions, supported by economically and statistically valid and transparent forecasting tools, concerning the amount of investment that will be pooled, the kinds of commercial enterprises that will receive such investments, details of the jobs that will be created directly or indirectly as a result of such investments, and other positive economic effects such investments will have.[23]

H3: 4. Policies and Procedures

An applicant must provide a description of the policies and procedures in place reasonably designed to monitor new commercial enterprises and any associated job-creating entity to seek to ensure compliance with applicable federal and state laws as well as the employment-based 5th preference (EB-5) program.[24]Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a written policy document that describes the policies and procedures in place reasonably designed to:

- Monitor new commercial enterprises and any associated job-creating entity to seek to ensure compliance with all applicable federal and state laws; and

- Ensure EB-5 program compliance.

Applicable federal and state laws that entities must comply with include:

- Applicable laws, regulations, and Executive Orders of the United States, including immigration laws, criminal laws, and securities laws; and

- All securities laws of each state in which securities offerings will be conducted, investment advice will be rendered, or the offerors or offerees reside.[25]

H2: C. Adjudication

H3: 1. Approval

If the applicant properly filed the application and the applicant has met the required eligibility standards, the officer approves the application. The approval notice provides information about the responsibilities and obligations of the designated regional center. The approval notice also lists the evidence to submit in support of regional center-associated individual EB-5 petitions, as well as details on the reporting, oversight and other compliance requirements for regional centers.

H3: 2. Denial

If the applicant has not established eligibility for the benefit sought, the officer denies the application. The officer should write the denial in clear and comprehensive language and cover all grounds for denial.[26]In the denial, the officer should refer to the controlling statute or regulations and to any relevant precedent or adopted decisions. The decision must include information about the applicant’s right to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office and the opportunity to file a motion to reopen or reconsider.

USCIS may deny an application if USCIS determines, in its discretion, that it was predicated on or involved fraud, deceit, intentional material misrepresentation, or criminal misuse[27]or that the approval of such application is contrary to the national interest of the United States for reasons relating to threats to public safety or national security.[28]

H2: D. Amendments

A designated regional center must notify USCIS no later than 120 days before the implementation of significant proposed changes to its organizational structure, ownership, or administration, including the sale of such center, or other arrangements which would result in individuals becoming involved with the regional center that were not previously subject to the requirements underINA 203(b)(5)(H).[29]Such notice is required within 5 business days after one of those changes if exigent circumstances are present.[30]USCIS will continue to adjudicate business plans and petitions during any notice period as long as the amendment to the business or petition does not negatively impact program eligibility.[31]

H2: E. Record-Keeping and Audits

H3: 1. Record-Keeping

A regional center must make and preserve, during the 5-year period beginning on the last day of the federal fiscal year in which any transactions occurred, books, ledgers, records, and other documentation from the regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity used to support:

- Any claims, evidence, or certifications contained in the regional center’s annual statements;[32]and

- Associated petitions by investors seeking EB-5 classification or removal of conditions.[33]

H3: 2. Audits

USCIS audits each regional center at least once every 5 years.[34]Each audit includes a review of any documentation required to be maintained under the record-keeping requirements described above for the preceding 5 fiscal years and a review of the flow of immigrant investor capital into any capital investment project.[35]To the extent multiple regional centers are located at a single site, USCIS may audit multiple regional centers in a single site visit.[36]

H2: F. Annual Statements

A designated regional center must submit a Regional Center Annual Statement (Form I-956G) for each fiscal year (October 1 through September 30) on or before December 29 of the calendar year in which the fiscal year ended.[37]If the regional center was designated on or before September 30, it must file an annual statement on or before December 29 of the same calendar year. If the regional center was designated on or after October 1, it does not need to file its first annual statement until on or before December 29 of the following calendar year.[38]

Each statement must include:

- A certification stating that, to the best of the certifier's knowledge, after a due diligence investigation, the regional center is in compliance with the statutory provisions pertaining to the bona fides of those involved with the regional center;[39]

- A certification relating to compliance with securities laws;

- A certification stating that, to the best of the certifier's knowledge, after a due diligence investigation, the regional center is in compliance with the requirement to maintain written agreements with promoters operating on its behalf;[40]

- A description of any pending material litigation or bankruptcy proceedings, or material litigation or bankruptcy proceedings resolved during the preceding fiscal year, involving the regional center, the new commercial enterprise, or any affiliated job-creating entity;

- An accounting of all individual immigrant investor capital invested in the regional center, new commercial enterprise, and job-creating entity; and

- A description of the regional center’s policies and procedures that are designed to enable the regional center to comply with applicable federal labor laws.[41]

For each new commercial enterprise associated with the regional center, the regional center must also provide:

- An accounting of the aggregate capital invested in the new commercial enterprise and any job-creating entity by immigrant investors for each capital investment project being undertaken by the new commercial enterprise;

- A description of how the capital invested is being used to execute each capital investment project in the filed business plan or plans;

- Evidence that 100 percent of the capital invested has been committed to each capital investment project;

- Detailed evidence of the progress made toward the completion of each capital investment project;

- An accounting of the aggregate direct jobs created or preserved;

- To the best of its knowledge, a description of all fees collected from investors by the regional center, new commercial enterprise, any affiliated job-creating, other affiliated issuer of securities or any promoter, finder, broker-dealer, or other entity engaged to locate investors, an accounting of the entities that received such fees, and the purpose for which such fees were collected;[42]

- Any documentation submitted with an Application for Approval of an Investment in a New Commercial Enterprise (Form I-956F) if there has been a material change during the preceding fiscal year; and

- A certification by the regional center that the information pertaining to each new commercial enterprise is accurate, to the best of the certifier’s knowledge, after a due diligence investigation.[43]

H2: G. Integrity Fund

Every October 1st, each designated regional center[44]must pay the following amounts into the EB-5 Integrity Fund (the Fund):

- $20,000; or

- $10,000 if the regional center has 20 or fewer investors.[45]

On March 2, 2023, USCIS exercised its discretion to set an enforcement policy for how it will evaluate whether a regional center has appropriately counted the number of its total investors and, accordingly, paid the correct fee.[46]USCIS developed this policy to adhere as closely to the plain statutory language as possible and in line with the general understanding of the term “investors” by EB-5 stakeholders.[47]

Under that policy, USCIS generally considers an individual to be an investor beginning from the filing of a petition for classification (either Immigrant Petition by Alien Investor (Form I-526)[48]orForm I-526E) and through the filing of a Petition by Investor to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status (Form I-829).[49]

For example, a regional center may have investors who have filed the following petitions on or before September 30 of the relevant fiscal year (including filings from prior fiscal years):

- 30 associated Form I-526 petitions;[50]

- 10 associated Form I-526E petitions; and

- 20 associated Form I-829 petitions.

In that situation, USCIS generally would estimate that the regional center has 20 total investors (30 plus 10, minus 20) in its new commercial enterprises for a given fiscal year for purposes of calculating the applicable Fund fee for the following fiscal year.[51]Therefore, it would likely owe the reduced fee amount of $10,000.[52]USCIS, however, retains discretion to review this question on a case-by-case basis that accounts for any other facts or evidence in the record in the totality of the circumstances, including any evidence provided by a regional center that believes it has greater or fewer total investors.[53]

H2: H. Terminations, Suspensions, and Other Sanctions

H3: 1. In General

In general, USCIS may impose a variety of sanctions on a regional center for violations of various statutory provisions. Depending on the violation, the range of sanctions may include:

- Fines of 10 percent or less of the total capital invested by immigrant investors in the regional center’s new commercial enterprises or job-creating entities directly involved in such violations, the payment of which must not in any circumstance utilize any of such immigrant investors’ capital investments, and which must be deposited into the EB-5 Integrity Fund;

- Temporary suspension from participation in the Regional Center Program, which may be lifted by USCIS if the individual or entity cures the alleged violation after being provided such an opportunity by USCIS;

- Permanent bar from participation in the Regional Center Program for one or more individuals or business entities associated with the regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity; and

- Termination of regional center designation.[54]

The regional center may appeal any suspension, termination, or other sanction to the Administrative Appeals Office.[55]

H3: 2. Violations Permitting Various Sanctions

USCIS may sanction a regional center, including suspension or termination, in situations including but not limited to when:

- The regional center fails to submit an annual statement or USCIS determines that the regional center knowingly submitted or caused to be submitted a statement, certification, or any information that contained an untrue statement of material fact or is conducting itself in a manner inconsistent with its designation;[56]

- The regional center knowingly involves an individual or entity that does not meet statutory requirements for being involved with a regional center by failing, within 14 days of acquiring such knowledge, to take commercially reasonable efforts to discontinue that individual or entity's involvement or provide notice of its actions to USCIS;[57]or

- The regional center fails to provide an attestation or information on Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program (Form I-956H), for an individual or entity involved with the regional center or knowingly provides false attestation or information on Form I-956H for an individual or entity involved with the regional center.[58]

USCIS may, in its discretion, also sanction a regional center, including suspension or termination, if the regional center, or any parties associated with the regional center[59]that the regional center knew or reasonably should have known:

- Are permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction in connection with the offer, purchase, or sale of a security or the provision of investment advice;

- Are subject to any final order of the SEC or a state securities regulator that bars such individual or entity from association with an entity regulated by the SEC or the state securities regulator; or constitutes a final order based on a finding of an intentional violation or a violation related to fraud or deceit in connection with the offer, purchase, or sale of, or investment advice relating to, a security; or

- Submitted, or caused to be submitted, a certification of compliance with securities laws that contained either an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted a material fact such that the omission renders the statement misleading.[60]

H3: 3. Violations Requiring Termination

In addition to other sanctions that USCIS may impose, USCIS must terminate a regional center’s designation if:

- The regional center fails to consent to or deliberately attempts to impede an audit;[61]

- USCIS determines that one of the regional center’s new commercial enterprises violates statutory provisions relating to redeployment of funds invested in the regional center;[62]

- The regional center fails to pay the EB-5 Integrity Fund fee within 90 days after its due date;[63]or

- USCIS determines, in its discretion, that the regional center’s designation is contrary to the national interest of the United States for reasons relating to threats to public safety or national security or was predicated on or involved fraud, deceit, intentional material misrepresentation, or criminal misuse.[64]

Additional information on the process for issuing sanctions appears in Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8].

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii).

[^ 2]On March 15, 2022, Congress codified a substantially revised Regional Center Program intoINA 203(b)(5). See the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022,Pub. L. 117-103  (PDF), 136 Stat. 49, 1070 (March 15, 2022). For information on the Regional Center Program as it existed before that date, see Appendix: Regional Center Program Prior to March 15, 2022 [6 USCIS-PM G, Appendices Tab].

[^ 3]For more information on the project application, see Chapter 5, Project Applications [6 USCIS-PM G.5].

[^ 4]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(i). For more information on investor eligibility, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements [6 USCIS-PM G.2].

[^ 5]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii).

[^ 6]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii).

[^ 7]For more information on requirements for these policies and procedures, see Subsection 4, Policies and Procedures [6 USCIS-PM G.4(B)(4)].

[^ 8]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(iii). In addition to providing attestations and information confirming that all persons involved with the regional center meet applicable requirements, the regional center applicant must also separately identify all natural persons involved with the regional center on theForm I-956.

[^ 9]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(I)(ii)(I).

[^ 10]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(v).

[^ 11]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(ii)(I).

[^ 12]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(ii)(II).

[^ 13]Disqualifying offenses include a criminal or civil offense involving fraud or deceit within the previous 10 years; a civil offense involving fraud or deceit that resulted in a liability in excess of $1,000,000; or a crime for which the person was convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than 1 year.

[^ 14]Relevant laws and regulations include those that prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct; or bars the person from associating with an entity regulated by such commission, authority, agency, or officer; appearing before such commission, authority, agency, or officer; engaging in the business of securities, insurance, or banking; or engaging in savings association or credit union activities.

[^ 15]As defined in21 U.S.C. 802.

[^ 16]As described in18 U.S.C. 1956or18 U.S.C. 1957.

[^ 17]As defined inINA 212(a)(3)(B).

[^ 18]As described inINA 212(a)(3)(E).

[^ 19]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(i).

[^ 20]For more information on evidence that may demonstrate the geographic area, see the instructions forForm I-956.

[^ 21]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii).

[^ 22]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii).

[^ 23]For more information on reasonable predictions, see the instructions forForm I-956.

[^ 24]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii)(II)andINA 203(b)(5)(E)(iii)(IV).

[^ 25]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(iii). For more information on policies and procedures, see the instructions forForm I-956.

[^ 26]See8 CFR 103.3(a)(1)(i).

[^ 27]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(O)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 28]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(N)(i). For more information on discretionary determinations, see Chapter 8, Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations, Section B, Discretionary Determinations [6 USCIS-PM G.8(B)].

[^ 29]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vi)(I)(aa).

[^ 30]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vi)(I)(bb).

[^ 31]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vi)(II).

[^ 32]For information on annual statements, see Section F, Annual Statements [6 USCIS-PM G.4(F)].

[^ 33]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(I).

[^ 34]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(II).

[^ 35]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(II).

[^ 36]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(II).

[^ 37]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(G). See the instructions for the Regional Center Annual Statement (Form I-956G).

[^ 38]See the instructions forForm I-956G.

[^ 39]For information on the requirements for those involved with a regional center, see Section B, Documentation and Evidence, Subsection 1, Persons Involved with the Regional Center Program [6 USCIS-PM G.4(B)(1)].

[^ 40]For information on third party promoters, see Chapter 6, Direct and Third-Party Promoters [6 USCIS-PM G.6].

[^ 41]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(G)(i).

[^ 42]The applicant should provide this information for all fees, including administrative fees, loan monitoring fees, loan management fees, commissions, and similar transaction-based compensation collected from immigrant investors by the regional center, the new commercial enterprise, any affiliated job-creating entity, any affiliated issuer of securities intended to be offered to immigrant investors, or any promoter, finder, broker-dealer, or other entity engaged by any of the aforementioned entities to locate individual investors.

[^ 43]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(G)(i).

[^ 44]Beginning on October 1, 2022, USCIS also collects a fee of $1,000 for the integrity fund with each petition filed by a regional center investor. SeeINA 203(b)(5)(J)(II).

[^ 45]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(J)(ii)(I).

[^ 46]See88 FR 13141  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 47]Although the term investor is not specifically defined for purposes ofINA 203(b)(5), it is used extensively throughout that section to refer to aliens seeking classification, or classified, under INA 203(b)(5). See88 FR 13141, 13142  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 48]USCIS includes Forms I-526 in this analysis as regional center investors used this form on or before June 30, 2021, the date the Regional Center Program lapsed. USCIS subsequently bifurcated and renamed the Form I-526, resulting in the Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor (Form I-526) and the Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor (Form I-526E) in response to the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022,Pub. L. 117-103  (PDF), 136 Stat. 49, 1070 (March 15, 2022).

[^ 49]See88 FR 13141, 13142  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 50]Filed on or before June 30, 2021, the date the Regional Center Program lapsed.

[^ 51]See88 FR 13141, 13142  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 52]See88 FR 13141, 13142  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 53]See88 FR 13141, 13143  (PDF)(Mar. 2, 2023) (notice of fee).

[^ 54]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(III),INA 203(b)(5)(F)(v)(II),INA 203(b)(5)(G)(iii),INA 203(b)(5)(H)(iv),INA 203(b)(5)(I)(iv), andINA 203(b)(5)(J)(iv).

[^ 55]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(P)(i).

[^ 56]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(G)(iii)(I). For more information on annual statements, see Section F, Annual Statements [6 USCIS-PM G.4(F)]. Depending on the severity of the violation, sanctions underINA 203(b)(5)(G)(iii)may also include fines and permanent bar in addition to suspension or termination. USCIS may also impose sanctions on individuals or entities associated with the regional center.

[^ 57]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(iv). For more information on who may be involved with a regional center, new commercial enterprise, or job-creating entity, see Section B, Documentation and Evidence, Subsection 1, Persons Involved with the Regional Center Program [6 USCIS-PM G.4(B)(1)].

[^ 58]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(H)(iv). For more information on the required attestation of the bona fides of those involved with a regional center, see Section B, Documentation and Evidence [6 USCIS-PM G.4(B)].

[^ 59]Parties associated with a regional center include the regional center; any new commercial enterprise or affiliated job-creating entity or issuer of securities associated with the regional center; the regional center’s and new commercial enterprise’s owners, officers, directors, manager, partners, agents, employees, promoters, and attorneys, or similar positions as determined by USCIS; and any individual or entity under the control of the regional center, new commercial enterprise, or issuer of securities associated with the regional center who is responsible for the marketing, offering, or sale of any security offered in connection with the capital investment project. SeeINA 203(b)(5)(I)(v).

[^ 60]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(I)(iv).

[^ 61]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(E)(vii)(III). For more information on audits, see Section E, Record-Keeping and Audits, Subsection 2, Audits [6 USCIS-PM G.4(E)(2)].

[^ 62]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(F)(v)(II). For more information on redeployment, see Chapter 2, Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements, Section A, Investment of Capital, Subsection 2, Investment [6 USCIS-PM G.2(A)(2)].

[^ 63]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(J)(iv)(II). For more information on the Integrity Fund, see Section G, Integrity Fund [6 USCIS-PM G.4(G)]. In general, the statute provides that the fee for the EB-5 Integrity Fund is due on October 1 and, therefore, a regional center must pay the fee on or before December 30 (within 90 days after October 1) or its designation will be subject to termination.

[^ 64]SeeINA 203(b)(5)(N)-(O).

H2: Resources

INA 201- Worldwide level of immigration

INA 202- Numerical limitations on individual foreign states

INA 203- Allocation of immigrant visas

INA 203(b)(5),8 CFR 204.6                    (PDF)- Employment creation immigrants

INA 204(a)(1)(H)- Procedure for granting immigrant status

INA 204,8 CFR 204- Procedure for granting immigrant status

INA 216A,8 CFR 216.6- Conditional permanent resident status for certain alien entrepreneurs, spouses, and children

Pub. L. 117-103                    (PDF)- Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022 - Division BB - EB–5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion

I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status

I-526, Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor

I-526E, Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor

I-956, Application for Regional Center Designation

I-956F, Application for Approval of an Investment in a Commercial Enterprise

I-956G, Regional Center Annual Statement

I-956H, Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

The content in this appendix reflects USCIS policy as it existed before the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, Division BB of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022,Pub.L. 117-103              (PDF), 136 Stat. 49, 1070 (March 15, 2022) for reference. For current USCIS policy on regional centers, see Chapter 4, Regional Center Applications [6 USCIS-PM G.4], Chapter 5, Project Applications [6 USCIS-PM G.5], and Chapter 6, Direct and Third Party Promoters [6 USCIS-PM G.6].

The goal of the Regional Center Program is to stimulate economic growth in a specified geographic area. The regional center model can offer an immigrant investor already defined investment opportunities, thereby reducing the immigrant investor’s responsibility to identify acceptable investment vehicles. If the new commercial enterprise is located within the geographic area, and falls within the economic scope of the defined regional center, reasonable methodologies can be used to demonstrate indirect job creation.[1]A regional center can be associated with one or more new commercial enterprises.

A regional center seeking to participate in the Regional Center Program must submit a proposal using the Application For Regional Center Under the Immigrant Investor Program (Form I-924).

USCIS may designate a regional center based on a general proposal for the promotion of economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, or increased domestic capital investment. The statute further provides that a regional center shall have jurisdiction over a limited geographic area, which shall be described in the proposal and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.

In addition, the establishment of a regional center may be based on general predictions, contained in the proposal, concerning the kinds of commercial enterprises that will receive capital from immigrant investors, the jobs that will be created directly or indirectly as a result of such capital investments, and the other positive economic effects such capital investments will have on the area.[2]

The regulations state that the proposal must:

- Clearly describe how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth through increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment;

- Provide in verifiable detail how jobs will be created directly or indirectly;

- Provide a detailed statement regarding the amounts and sources of capital which have been already committed to the regional center;

- Provide a description of the promotional efforts taken and planned by the sponsors of the regional center;

- Include a detailed prediction[3]how the regional center will have a positive impact on the regional or national economy based on factors such as increased household earnings, greater demand for business services, utilities, maintenance and repair, and construction both within and without the regional center; and

- Be supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, analyses of foreign and domestic markets for the goods or services to be exported, or multiplier tables.[4]

Clearly describe how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth through increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment;

Provide in verifiable detail how jobs will be created directly or indirectly;

Provide a detailed statement regarding the amounts and sources of capital which have been already committed to the regional center;

Provide a description of the promotional efforts taken and planned by the sponsors of the regional center;

Include a detailed prediction[3]how the regional center will have a positive impact on the regional or national economy based on factors such as increased household earnings, greater demand for business services, utilities, maintenance and repair, and construction both within and without the regional center; and

Be supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, analyses of foreign and domestic markets for the goods or services to be exported, or multiplier tables.[4]

The level of verifiable detail required for a Form I-924 to be approved and provided deference may vary depending on the nature of the application filing.[5]

H2: A. Regional Center Application Proposals

The regional center proposal must include a management and operational plan to administer, oversee, and manage the proposed regional center, including but not limited to how the regional center:

- Will be promoted to attract immigrant investors, including a description of the budget for promotional activities;

- Will identify, assess, and evaluate proposed immigrant investor projects and enterprises;

- Characterizes the structure of the investment capital it will sponsor; for example, whether the investment capital to be sought for job-creating companies will consist solely of immigrant investor capital or a combination of immigrant investor capital and domestic capital, and how the distribution of the investment capital will be structured (for example, loans to developers or venture capital); and

- Will oversee all investment activities affiliated with, through, or under the sponsorship of the proposed regional center.

Will be promoted to attract immigrant investors, including a description of the budget for promotional activities;

Will identify, assess, and evaluate proposed immigrant investor projects and enterprises;

Characterizes the structure of the investment capital it will sponsor; for example, whether the investment capital to be sought for job-creating companies will consist solely of immigrant investor capital or a combination of immigrant investor capital and domestic capital, and how the distribution of the investment capital will be structured (for example, loans to developers or venture capital); and

Will oversee all investment activities affiliated with, through, or under the sponsorship of the proposed regional center.

Geographic Area

An officer reviews the proposed geographic boundaries of a new regional center to determine if they are acceptable. USCIS considers geographic boundaries acceptable if the regional center applicant can establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the proposed economic activity will promote economic growth in the proposed area.[6]The determination is fact-specific, and the law does not require any particular form of evidence, such as a county-by-county analysis.

In addition, a regional center’s geographic area must be limited, contiguous, and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.[7]To demonstrate that the proposed geographic area is limited, the regional center applicant should submit evidence demonstrating the linkages between proposed economic activities within the proposed area based on different variables. Examples of variables to demonstrate linkages between economic activities can include but are not limited to:

- Regional connectivity;

- The labor pool and supply chain; and

- Interdependence between projects.

Regional connectivity;

The labor pool and supply chain; and

Interdependence between projects.

Moreover, in assessing the likelihood that the proposed economic activity will promote economic growth in the proposed geographic area, an officer reviews the impact of the activity relative to relevant economic conditions. The size of the proposed area should be limited and consistent with the scope and scale of the proposed economic activity, as the regional center applicant is required to focus on a geographical region of the United States.[8]The regional center applicant must present an economic analysis of its proposed economic activity in the proposed geographic area that is supported by economically or statistically valid forecasting tools.[9]The Form I-924 instructions provide further information regarding the requirements of the economic analysis.

H2: B. Types of Regional Center Projects

An actual project refers to a specific project proposal that is supported by aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan.[10]

A hypothetical project refers to a project proposal that is not supported by aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan.

The term exemplar refers to a sample Immigrant Petition by Alien Investor (Form I-526), filed with Form I-924 for an actual project. This type of regional center proposal contains copies of the commercial enterprise’s organizational and transactional documents, which USCIS reviews to determine if they are in compliance with established eligibility requirements.

H3: 1. Hypothetical Projects

If the Form I-924 projects are hypothetical projects, general proposals and general predictions may be sufficient to determine that the proposed regional center will more likely than not promote economic growth, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment. A regional center applicant seeking review of a hypothetical project should clarify in the Form I-924 submission that the project is hypothetical. General proposals and predictions may include a description of the project parameters, such as:

- Proposed project activities, industries, locations, and timelines;

- A general market analysis of the proposed job creating activities and explanation regarding how the proposed project activities are likely to promote economic growth and create jobs; and

- A description, along with supporting evidence, of the regional center principals’ relevant experience and expertise.

Proposed project activities, industries, locations, and timelines;

A general market analysis of the proposed job creating activities and explanation regarding how the proposed project activities are likely to promote economic growth and create jobs; and

A description, along with supporting evidence, of the regional center principals’ relevant experience and expertise.

While hypothetical project submissions are sufficient for regional center designation, previous determinations based on hypothetical projects will not receive deference. Actual projects will receive a de novo officer review during subsequent filings (for example, through the adjudication of an amended Form I-924 application, including the actual project details or the first Form I-526 immigrant investor petition).

Organizational and transactional supporting documents are not required for a hypothetical project. If a regional center applicant desires a compliance review of organizational and transactional documents, the application must include an actual project with aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant business plan and an exemplar immigrant investor petition.

H3: 2. Actual Projects

Applications for regional center designation based on actual projects may require more details than a hypothetical project to demonstrate that the proposal contains verifiable details and is supported by economically or statistically sound forecasting tools. A regional center applicant seeking review of an actual project should clarify in the Form I-924 submission that the project is actual.

Actual projects require aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant comprehensive business plan that provides verifiable detail on how jobs will be created. Absent fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legal deficiency,[11]USCIS defers to prior determinations based on actual projects when evaluating subsequent filings under the project involving the same material facts and issues.

Organizational and transactional documents for the new commercial enterprise are not required. If a regional center applicant desires review of organizational and transactional documents for program compliance, the regional center application must be accompanied by an exemplar Form I-526 immigrant investor petition.

If regional center applicants opt not to file a Form I-924 amendment, the investor should identify his or her Form I-526 immigrant investor petition as an actual project being presented for the first time. Additionally, the immigrant petition should contain an affirmative statement signed by a regional center principal confirming that the regional center is aware of the specific project being presented for the first time as part of the immigrant investor petition.

In cases where the regional center application is filed based on actual projects that do not contain sufficient verifiable detail, USCIS may approve the projects as hypothetical projects if they contain the requisite general proposals and predictions. The projects approved as hypotheticals, however, do not receive deference in subsequent filings.

In cases where some projects are approvable as actual projects, and others are not approvable or only approvable as hypothetical projects, the approval notice should identify which projects have been approved as actual projects and will be accorded deference. The approval notice should also identify projects that have been approved as hypothetical projects but will not be accorded deference.

H3: 3. Exemplar Filings

Regional center applications, based on actual projects, including a Form I-526 immigrant investor exemplar petition, require more details than a hypothetical or actual project submitted without an exemplar. A regional center applicant seeking review of an exemplar should state that the project is an actual project with a Form I-526 exemplar.

Exemplar filings require aMatter of Ho (PDF)compliant comprehensive business plan that provides verifiable detail on how jobs will be created, as well as organizational and transactional documents for the new commercial enterprise.

Absent fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legal deficiency, officer determinations based on exemplar filings are accorded deference in subsequent filings under the project with the same material facts and issues.

While an amended Form I-924 is not required to perfect a hypothetical project once the actual project details are available, some applicants may choose to file an amended Form I-924 application with a Form I-526 exemplar to obtain a favorable determination. These exemplar filings are accorded deference in subsequent related filings, absent material change, fraud, willful misrepresentation, or a legally deficient determination.

H2: C. Regional Center Annual Reporting

Designated regional centers must file a Supplement to Form I-924 (Form I-924A) annually that demonstrates continued eligibility for designation as a regional center in the EB-5 Program.[12]The regional center must file the form within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year (between October 1 and December 29). The Form I-924A instructions specifically list required information that must be submitted.[13]

If the regional center fails to file the required annual report, USCIS issues a Notice of Intent to Terminate (NOIT) to the regional center for failing to provide the required information. This may ultimately result in the termination of the regional center’s designation if the regional center fails to respond or does not file a response which adequately demonstrates continued eligibility.

H2: D. Regional Center Amendments

Because businesses’ strategies constantly evolve, with new opportunities identified and existing plans improved, a regional center may amend a previously approved designation. The Form I-924 instructions provide information regarding the submission of regional center amendment requests.[14]

To improve processing efficiencies and predictability in subsequent filings, many regional centers may seek to amend the Form I-924 approval to reflect changes in economic analysis and job creation estimates. Such amendments, however, are not required in order for individual investors to proceed with filing the immigrant petitions or petitions to remove conditions on residence based on the additional jobs created, or to be created, in additional industries.

Formal amendments to an approved regional center’s designation are not required when a regional center changes its industries of focus, business plans, or economic methodologies; however, a regional center may find it advantageous to seek USCIS approval of such changes before they are adjudicated in individual immigrant investor petitions.

Requests to Change Geographic Area

When a regional center requests to expand its geographic area, the proposed geographic area must be limited, contiguous, and consistent with the purpose of concentrating pooled investment in defined economic zones.[15]​

Any requests for geographic area expansion made on or after February 22, 2017 are adjudicated under the current guidance in the Form I-924 instructions which requires that a Form I-924 amendment must be filed, and approved, to expand the regional center’s geographic area. The Form I-924 amendment must be approved before an I-526 petitioner may demonstrate eligibility at the time of filing his or her petition based on an investment in the expanded area.

If the regional center’s geographic area expansion request was submitted either through a Form I-924 amendment or Form I-526 petition filed prior to February 22, 2017, and the request is ultimately approved, USCIS will continue to adjudicate additional Form I-526 petitions associated with investments in that area under prior policy guidance issued on May 30, 2013.[16]That policy did not require a formal amendment to expand a regional center’s geographic area, and permitted concurrent filing of the Form I-526 prior to approval of the geographic area amendment.

H2: E. Termination of a Regional Center Designation

USCIS issues a NOIT if:

- USCIS determines that a regional center no longer serves the purpose of promoting economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment; or

- The regional center fails to submit required information to USCIS.[17]

USCIS determines that a regional center no longer serves the purpose of promoting economic growth, including increased export sales, improved regional productivity, job creation, and increased domestic capital investment; or

The regional center fails to submit required information to USCIS.[17]

The NOIT will provide the grounds for termination and provide at least 30 days from receipt of the NOIT for the regional center to respond to the allegations in the NOIT. The regional center may offer evidence to contest the allegations in the NOIT. If the regional center overcomes the allegations in the NOIT, USCIS issues a Notice of Reaffirmation that affirms the regional center’s designation.

If the regional center fails to overcome the allegations in the NOIT, USCIS terminates the regional center’s participation in the Regional Center Program. In this case, USCIS notifies the regional center of the termination, the reasons for termination, and the right to file a motion, appeal, or both. The regional center may appeal the decision to USCIS’ Administrative Appeals Office within 30 days after service of notice (33 days, if the notice was mailed).[18]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]For a definition of indirect jobs, see Chapter 2, Eligibility Requirements, Section D, Creation of Jobs, Subsection 4, Measuring Job Creation [6 USCIS-PM G.2(D)(4)].

[^ 2]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended.

[^ 3]An applicant can submit a general prediction which addresses the prospective impact of the capital investment projects sponsored by the regional center, regionally or nationally. See Form I-924 instructions.

[^ 4]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3).

[^ 5]For more information about the types of regional center projects, see Section B, Types of Regional Center Projects [6 USCIS-PM G.3(B)].

[^ 6]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3)(i) (requiring a clear description of how the regional center focuses on a geographical region of the United States and how it will promote economic growth).

[^ 7]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended.

[^ 8]See Section 610(a) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1993, Pub. L. 102-395, 106 Stat. 1828, 1874 (October 6, 1992), as amended. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3)(i).

[^ 9]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(3).

[^ 10]See Chapter 2, Eligibility Requirements, Section B, Comprehensive Business Plan [6 USCIS-PM G.2(B)].

[^ 11]Legal deficiency includes objective mistakes of law or fact made as part of the USCIS adjudication.

[^ 12]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

[^ 13]See Form I-924A instructions.

[^ 14]See Form I-924 instructions.

[^ 15]For a discussion of an officer’s review of a regional center’s proposed geographic area, see Section A, Regional Center Application Proposals [6 USCIS-PM G.3(A)].

[^ 16]See EB-5 Adjudication Policy Memo, PM-602-0083, issued May 30, 2013.

[^ 17]See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

[^ 18]See 8 CFR 103.3. See 8 CFR 204.6(m)(6).

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the new provisions added to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) by the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022 (RIA) relating to the consequences to regional centers, new commercial enterprises, job creating entities, and investors for noncompliance in the EB-5 program.

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.8-Chapter 8 - Sanctions and Discretionary Determinations

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to continue to incorporate statutory reforms of the Regional Center Program as they relate to regional center designation and other requirements for immigrant investors.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

This technical update to Volume 6 clarifies the Policy Manual alert boxes published on April 27, 2022 relating to the recent EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, which authorizes an EB-5 Immigrant Investor Regional Center Program and includes various implementation effective dates for the program. On June 24, 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Mayorkas, et al, 3:22-cv-02487, issued a preliminary injunction enjoining USCIS “from treating as deauthorized the previously designated regional centers.” The April 27, 2022 alert remains posted for historical purposes.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

This technical update to Volume 6 alerts readers to the passage of the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act of 2022, which authorizes an EB-5 Immigrant Investor Regional Center Program and includes various implementation effective dates for the program. The alert boxes refer readers to uscis.gov for the latest information on the implementation of that law. In addition, this update reserves and moves all of the content in Chapter 3 (Regional Center Designation, Reporting, Amendments, and Termination) to an appendix (Regional Center Program Prior to March 15, 2022) as Congress repealed that program.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

This technical update explains that on June 22, 2021, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Wolf, 20-cv-09263-JSC, vacated theEB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule                             (PDF). While USCIS considers this decision, USCIS will apply the EB-5 regulations and policies that were in effect before the rule was finalized on November 21, 2019.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.3-Chapter 3 - Immigrant Petition Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

7 USCIS-PM A.6-Chapter 6 - Adjudicative Review

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing clarifying policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding deployment of investment capital, including further deployment after the job creation requirement is satisfied.

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is revising its policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with the EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule, published on July 24, 2019, and effective November 21, 2019.Note: On June 22, 2021, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, inBehring Regional Center LLC v. Wolf, 20-cv-09263-JSC, vacated theEB-5 Immigrant Investor Program Modernization Final Rule                            (PDF). While USCIS considers this decision, USCIS will apply the EB-5 regulations and policies that were in effect before the rule was finalized on November 21, 2019.

6 USCIS-PM G.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM G.2-Chapter 2 - Immigrant Petition Eligibility Requirements

6 USCIS-PM G.4-Chapter 4 - Regional Center Applications

6 USCIS-PM G.5-Chapter 5 - Project Applications

7 USCIS-PM A.6-Chapter 6 - Adjudicative Review

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding a regional center’s geographic area, requests to expand the geographic area, and how such requests impact the filing of Form I-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating the USCIS Policy Manual to provide further guidance regarding the job creation and capital at risk requirements for Form I-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur, and Form I-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance regarding the eligibility requirements for regional centers and immigrant investors.

6 USCIS-PM G-Part G - Investors