H1: Chapter 3 - Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence

- Guidance

- Resources (15)

- Appendices (0)

- Updates (6)

A conditional permanent resident (CPR) is required to meet certain criteria in order to remove the conditions on permanent residence.[1]In order to request removal of conditions, the CPR must file a Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence (Form I-751).

H2: A. Establishing a Bona Fide Marriage

A qualifying marriage is the marriage upon which a CPR obtained permanent resident status. Generally, in order to remove conditions, the CPR must establish that a qualifying marriage is or was bona fide. A bona fide marriage is a marriage:

- That was entered into in accordance with the laws of the place where the marriage took place;[2]

- Absent a waiver,[3]that has not been judicially annulled or terminated, other than through the death of a spouse;[4]

- That was not entered into for the purpose of procuring admission as an immigrant;[5]and

- For which no fee or other consideration was given to the petitioning spouse, CPR spouse, or other interested party for filing the immigrant or fiancé(e) visa petition that formed the basis of the CPR’s admission to the United States.[6]

The statutory provision on fee or consideration does not refer to fees paid to attorneys, notarios, or other persons who assisted with filing petitions, but rather refers to instances where a fee or other consideration was paid in exchange for the petitioner filingForm I-130orForm I-129Fin connection with a fraudulent marriage. This could include direct monetary payments from the beneficiary to the petitioner, or indirect forms of consideration made to induce the petitioner to file such as payments or gifts from the beneficiary’s family or to the petitioner’s family. If a fee or other consideration was paid in order to enter into a fraudulent marriage or to obtain an immigration benefit through a fraudulent marriage, the CPR is ineligible for removal of conditions.

To request removal of conditions on residence, the CPR must provide USCIS with evidence that the qualifying marriage is or was bona fide.

Evidence of a bona fide marriage may include, but is not limited to:

- Documentation showing joint ownership of property;[7]

- Lease showing joint tenancy of a common residence;[8]

- Documentation showing commingling of financial resources;[9]

- Birth certificates of child(ren) born to the marriage;[10]

- Affidavits of third parties having knowledge of the bona fides of the marital relationship;[11]and

- Other documentation establishing that the marriage was not entered into in order to evade the immigration laws of the United States.[12]

The CPR must also provide the following information on the petition:

- The actual residence(s) of the CPR and the petitioning spouse or stepparent from the time that the CPR obtained status;[13]and

- The CPR and the petitioning spouse or stepparent’s places and names of employers from the date that the CPR obtained status.[14]

In some circumstances, when the CPR is unable to file jointly with the petitioning spouse or stepparent, the CPR may be able to file an individual filing request or request a waiver of the joint filing requirement.

H2: B. Basis for Filing

The following table outlines the circumstances under which CPRs may file aForm I-751and the corresponding filing type.

TABLE:
Basis for Filing Petition | Filing Type
The CPR spouse is still married to the same U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident (petitioning spouse).[15] | Joint filing
The CPR is a child and cannot be included on the CPR parent’s Form I-751 (and the CPR parent is still married to the petitioning spouse).[16] | Joint filing
The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith but is now a widow or widower.[17]The CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but the CPR child’s stepparent has died. | Individual filing request
The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but the marriage ended through divorce or annulment.[18]The CPR child’s parent entered into a qualifying marriage in good faith, but the marriage ended through divorce or annulment. | Good faith (divorce) waiver
The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning spouse battered or subjected the CPR spouse or the CPR spouse’s child to extreme cruelty.[19]The CPR child cannot be included on the CPR parent’s battery or extreme cruelty waiver request, and the CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning spouse battered or subjected the CPR spouse to extreme cruelty.The CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning stepparent or the CPR parent battered or subjected the CPR child to extreme cruelty.[20] | Battery or extreme cruelty (abuse) waiver
Termination of the CPR’s permanent resident status and removal from the United States would cause extreme hardship.[21] | Extreme hardship waiver

Basis for Filing Petition

Filing Type

The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith but is now a widow or widower.[17]

The CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but the CPR child’s stepparent has died.

The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but the marriage ended through divorce or annulment.[18]

The CPR child’s parent entered into a qualifying marriage in good faith, but the marriage ended through divorce or annulment.

The CPR spouse entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning spouse battered or subjected the CPR spouse or the CPR spouse’s child to extreme cruelty.[19]

The CPR child cannot be included on the CPR parent’s battery or extreme cruelty waiver request, and the CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning spouse battered or subjected the CPR spouse to extreme cruelty.

The CPR child’s parent entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but during the marriage the petitioning stepparent or the CPR parent battered or subjected the CPR child to extreme cruelty.[20]

When filing Form I-751 requesting a waiver, the CPR can select all bases for filing that apply. USCIS considers eligibility for all grounds requested. However, when there are multiple filing bases, USCIS only approves a waiver based on one category. For all bases for filing, a CPR child may also file separately if the child is not included on the CPR parent’s petition.

H2: C. Filing Requirements

H3: 1. Proper Filing and Initial Review

A CPR may fileForm I-751regardless of whether or not the CPR is physically present in the United States. However, if the CPR is outside the United States at the time of filing, the CPR must return to the United States with the CPR’s petitioning spouse and dependent children to comply with the interview requirement, unless the interview requirement is waived by USCIS, and any biometrics collection requirements.[22]

The CPR must file a jointly-filed Form I-751 during the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the CPR receiving permanent resident status. A CPR may file the joint petition after the expiration of the 90-day period if the CPR establishes that there was good cause and extenuating circumstances for failing to file a timely joint petition.[23]

CPRs may file individual filing requests and waiver requests at any time before they are subject to a final order of removal. CPR children who must file a separate Form I-751 may do so at any time before they are subject to a final order of removal.

In order for the Form I-751 to be considered properly filed, it must be properly signed, accompanied by the appropriate fee, and contain evidence that the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of evading immigration laws.[24]

CPRs must file the Form I-751 according to the form instructions. The Form I-751 must be:

- Timely filed;

- Submitted on the current edition of the form;

- Filed at the correct filing location;

- Accompanied by the correct filing fee; and

- Properly signed.[25]

When initially reviewing the Form I-751, USCIS first determines whether the Form I-751 has been properly filed according to the criteria above and in the form instructions. If the petition is not properly filed, USCIS may reject the Form I-751.

If the petition is properly filed according to the form instructions, the officer determines whether the CPR was properly classified as a CPR and whether the CPR submitted evidence of a bona fide qualifying marriage.[26]Then the officer proceeds with a full review of the record and examination of eligibility.

H3: 2. Late Joint Filing

The CPR must file a jointly-filedForm I-751during the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the CPR receiving CPR status. If the CPR and the petitioning spouse file a joint petition untimely, USCIS determines if the failure to file timely is based on good cause and extenuating circumstances.[27]The CPR and petitioning spouse should submit an explanation for the untimely filing and any supporting documentation at the time of the initial filing.

If there is no explanation included with the initial filing, the officer issues a Request for Evidence (RFE). If there is no response to the RFE, the officer denies the petition for abandonment (no response) for failing to comply with the filing requirements.[28]

If an explanation for the untimely filing is provided, the officer evaluates the explanation in relation to the time of eventual filing. The officer also reviews any accompanying documentary evidence submitted in support of the explanation for the late filing, if any, to determine whether there is good cause and extenuating circumstances for the late filing.[29]Supporting documentary evidence may not be necessary if the explanation for the late filing is acceptable on its face.

Good cause and extenuating circumstances for filing an untimely joint petition are not defined by the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). Good cause and extenuating circumstances may include, but are not limited to:

- Hospitalization;

- Long-term illness;

- Death of a family member and bereavement;

- Recent birth of a child;

- Legal or financial problems;

- Providing care for someone;

- Serious family emergency;

- Work commitment; or

- A family member on active duty with the U.S. armed forces.

Forgetting to file, absent other factors, generally does not constitute good cause and extenuating circumstances.

If USCIS determines that the CPR and petitioning spouse have established good cause and extenuating circumstances, then USCIS proceeds with adjudication of the case. If USCIS determines that the CPR and petitioning spouse have failed to establish good cause and extenuating circumstances, then USCIS denies the case for failure to comply with the filing requirements.[30]

H2: D. Overseas on Military or Government Orders

In general, the CPR spouse and petitioning spouse must jointly file theForm I-751within the 90-day window before the 2-year anniversary of obtaining CPR status. However, if the CPR or petitioning spouse or stepparent is stationed or deployed overseas as a result of official military or government orders, the requisite filing period does not begin until the CPR or petitioning spouse or stepparent on military or government orders returns to the United States or is no longer on active duty. However, they may also file the Form I-751 during active duty service at any time after the commencement of the 90-day period.[31]

USCIS may waive the deadline or the requirement for an interview.[32]To make this determination, USCIS reviews the evidence submitted to determine the nature of the deployment and the bona fides of the marriage.

H3: 1. Eligible Military Members

For the purpose ofForm I-751, a military member is any U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident currently stationed or deployed on official orders as a member of the U.S. armed forces, including:

- Active duty;

- Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve member; or

- Activated reservists and mobilized National Guardsmen.[33]

H3: 2. Evidence of Military Service

USCIS reviews every properly filed petition for the following:

- Evidence that the petition involves an active duty military member;

- Evidence establishing that the active duty military member is stationed or deployed overseas on official orders; and

- Evidence establishing a bona fide qualifying marriage exists.

USCIS considers military-specific evidence as strong evidence towards establishing the bona fides of the qualifying marriage. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to:

- All pages of the service member’s Application for Identification Card/DEERS Enrollment (Form DD-1172-2), naming dependents;

- Dependent’s Military Identification and Privilege Card;

- Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for Naturalization (Form DD-1278);

- Copy of Permanent Change of Station Orders issued to the service member for permanent tour of duty overseas that specifically name the spouse and children (if any);

- Designation of the beneficiary on the Service Member’s Group Life Insurance policy;

- Evidence of a Family Service Members’ Group Life Insurance policy;

- Evidence of the military member’s health insurance policy on behalf of the dependent;

- Documentation showing that the spouse and child (if any) reside in military base or post housing;

- Powers-of-attorney of life insurance designation (general or specific);

- Military TRICARE medical ID card for use at military medical facilities;

- Leave and Earnings Statement showing Family Separation Allowance or allotments to dependents;

- Living will or last will and testament;

- Pre-authorization for emergency financial assistance; and

- Copy of the service member’s Record of Emergency Data.

H3: 3. Adjudication of Military Cases

The following table displays the steps USCIS takes when adjudicating military cases:

TABLE:
Scenario | USCIS Officer Action
Evidence to supportForm I-751is received and meets the burden of proof. | Approves Form I-751 and follows normal post-adjudication process.[34]
USCIS cannot approve the Form I-751 and the Form I-751 cannot be statutorily denied.[35] | Sends the military member an RFE to the address of record (physical or APO or FPO) for additional documentation to establish claimed relationship (or address other deficiencies).
USCIS receives the military member’s response to the RFE. | Continues the adjudication and post-adjudication processes, including approving the Form I-751 if the evidence submitted was sufficient.[36]
RFE response is insufficient. | If military member is stationed abroad, the officer places the Form I-751 on an overseas hold until the military member returns to the United States.
There is no response to the RFE within the appropriate RFE response period, or the RFE is returned as undeliverable.[37] | Places the Form I-751 on hold for up to 18 months.
18 months have passed since USCIS placed the case on hold. | Checks for updated address information and:Denies Form I-751 if the military member is no longer in the military; orAdministratively closes the Form I-751 if the military member is still in the military.
Form I-751 is denied. | Reopens or reactivates the Form I-751 upon the military member’s request at any time at no charge.
Form I-751 is administratively closed. | Reopens or reactivates the Form I-751 upon the military member’s request at any time at no charge.

Scenario

USCIS Officer Action

Checks for updated address information and:

- Denies Form I-751 if the military member is no longer in the military; or

- Administratively closes the Form I-751 if the military member is still in the military.

H3: 4. U.S. Federal Government Workers

The same policies and procedures that apply to military members also apply to non-military U.S. federal government workers currently working abroad on official government orders. Evidence of government employment or orders may include:

- A copy of travel orders issued by the government;

- A copy of government identification (such as a PIV card or credential);

- Copies of pay stubs or W2s issued by the government;

- Copies of bank account statements showing pay from a U.S. government entity; and

- An APO, FPO, or DFO mailing address.

H2: E. CPRs with Pending Naturalization Applications

Because of differences in processing times between theForm I-751and the Application for Naturalization (Form N-400) and because CPRs are eligible to apply for naturalization (if otherwise eligible),[38]there may be instances when a CPR applies for naturalization while the CPR’s Form I-751 is still pending. If the CPR has a pending Form N-400, USCIS adjudicates the Form I-751 before or at the same time as the Form N-400.

In most cases, CPRs must have an approved Form I-751 before USCIS may naturalize them. However, there are limited circumstances in which the CPR is not required to file a Form I-751 before naturalizing.[39]

H2: F. Standard of Proof

The standard of proof in establishing eligibility for removal of conditions is preponderance of the evidence. If the initial filing does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS may issue an RFE or schedule an interview or both.[40]USCIS adjudicates theForm I-751based on the information contained in the form, submitted documentation, other information in the record, and testimony provided at the interview (if any).[41]

H2: G. Interview

CPRs who file aForm I-751must appear for an interview at a USCIS field office, unless USCIS waives the interview requirement.[42]USCIS officers may consider waiving the interview in cases where:

- The officer considers they can make a decision on the petition based on the record because the record contains sufficient evidence about the bona fides of the marriage and that the marriage was not entered into for the purpose of evading the immigration laws of the United States;

- There is sufficient evidence in the record of the CPR’s eligibility for waiver of the joint filing requirement, if applicable;

- There is no indication of fraud or misrepresentation on the Form I-751, in the supporting documentation, or elsewhere in the record;

- There are no complex facts or issues that require an interview or sworn statement to resolve questions or concerns; and

- There are no criminal bars rendering the CPR removable.

When determining whether to waive an interview, the considerations listed above apply regardless of whether theForm I-751is filed as a joint petition, individual filing request, or a waiver. For a joint petition, the statute requires USCIS to interview both the CPR and petitioning spouse.[43]If the CPR is filing an individual filing request or waiver, only the CPR must appear for the interview.[44]

If the required party or parties fail to appear for the interview, USCIS denies theForm I-751, terminates the CPR’s status, and initiates removal proceedings, unless the CPR establishes good cause for the failure to appear and USCIS reschedules the interview.[45]USCIS determines whether there is good cause on a case-by-case basis.

H2: H. Rebuttal of Derogatory Information

If USCIS determines that there is derogatory information related to the bona fides of the qualifying marriage, then USCIS provides the CPR with an opportunity to rebut such information during the interview or in response to an RFE or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID), or both.[46]If the CPR files a waiver or individual filing request, USCIS provides this opportunity only to the CPR.

If the CPR overcomes the derogatory information, and there are no other unresolved eligibility issues, USCIS approves the petition.[47]If the CPR fails to overcome the derogatory information, USCIS denies the petition.

H2: I. Suspected Fraud

If USCIS determines that the marriage was designed to circumvent U.S. immigration laws, then USCIS issues an RFE or NOID and gives the CPR an opportunity to rebut the evidence of record.[48]If the CPR files a waiver or individual filing request, USCIS provides this opportunity only to the CPR.

USCIS examines the CPR’s response to the RFE or NOID. If the response is insufficient to overcome the derogatory information in the record, and USCIS still finds that despite the rebuttal the marriage was designed to circumvent the immigration laws, then USCIS denies the case.

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 216. See8 CFR 216.

[^ 2]SeeINA 216(d)(1)(A)(i)(I). See8 CFR 216.4(c)(1). For purposes of evaluating a marriage that involved a minor, officers may consider the legality or validity of the qualifying marriage if new evidence is presented at theForm I-751stage that explicitly raises these concerns.

[^ 3]A CPR may seek a waiver if the CPR entered into the qualifying marriage in good faith, but the marriage was terminated other than by death of the petitioning spouse. For information about good faith marriage waivers for CPRs whose marriage was terminated, see Chapter 5, Waiver of Joint Filing Requirement, Section B, Good Faith Marriage (Divorce) [6 USCIS-PM I.5(B)].

[^ 4]SeeINA 216(d)(1)(A)(i)(II). See8 CFR 216.4(c)(2). SeeMatter of Tee(PDF), 20 I&N Dec 949 (BIA 1995). (An alien becomes statutorily ineligible for approval of a joint petition under INA 216(c)(1) where the marriage has been terminated before USCIS adjudicates the petition.)

[^ 5]SeeINA 216(d)(1)(A)(i)(III). See8 CFR 216.4(c)(3).

[^ 6]SeeINA 216(d)(1). For additional information on USCIS’ interpretation on bona fide marriages, see8 CFR 245.1(c)(8)(iii)(F)(explaining that a bona fide marriage, in cases where the beneficiary is in deportation proceedings, means the parties entered into the marriage in good faith and not for the purpose of procuring immigration status for the beneficiary, and no fee or consideration was given, other than attorney fees). See the Immigration Act of 1990 (IMMACT 90),Pub. L. 101-649  (PDF)(November 29, 1990).

[^ 7]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(i).

[^ 8]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(ii).

[^ 9]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(iii).

[^ 10]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(iv).

[^ 11]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(v).

[^ 12]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(5)(vi).

[^ 13]SeeINA 216(d)(1)(B)(i).

[^ 14]SeeINA 216(d)(1)(B)(ii).

[^ 15]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(A). See8 CFR 216.4(a)(1).

[^ 16]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(2).

[^ 17]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(A). See8 CFR 216.4(a)(1).

[^ 18]SeeINA 216(c)(4)(B). See8 CFR 216.5(a)(1)(ii).

[^ 19]SeeINA 216(c)(4)(C). See8 CFR 216.5(a)(1)(iii).

[^ 20]SeeINA 216(c)(4)(C). See8 CFR 216.5(a)(1)(iii).

[^ 21]SeeINA 216(c)(4)(A). See8 CFR 216.5(a)(1)(i).

[^ 22]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(4). See instructions forForm I-751.

[^ 23]SeeINA 216(d)(2)(B). See8 CFR 216.4(a)(6).

[^ 24]See8 CFR 216.4(a)(1). CPRs requesting a waiver based on extreme hardship are not required to submit evidence of a bona fide qualifying marriage.

[^ 25]Current information about filing locations, fees, and other information about how to file can be found at theForm I-751and Fee Schedule (Form G-1055) webpages. For more filing information, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part B, Submission of Benefit Requests [1 USCIS-PM B]. Note that, for U.S. citizen petitioners who are deployed in active duty status with the U.S. armed forces, USCIS accepts theForm I-751without the petitioner’s signature if it is accompanied by the required evidence listed in the form instructions, along with evidence of the military member’s assignment abroad.

[^ 26]CPRs requesting a waiver based on extreme hardship are not required to submit evidence of a bona fide qualifying marriage.

[^ 27]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(A)andINA 216(d)(2). See8 CFR 216.4(a)(6).

[^ 28]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(a)andINA 216(d)(2).

[^ 29]SeeINA 216(d)(2)(B).

[^ 30]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(A)andINA 216(d)(2)(B). See8 CFR 216.4(a)(6).

[^ 31]SeeINA 216(g)(1).

[^ 32]SeeINA 216(g)(2).

[^ 33]This includes, but is not limited to, Permanent Change of Station Orders or Deployment Orders issued to the military member for a permanent tour of duty.

[^ 34]If no U.S. address is available, USCIS may hold the petition until the petitioning spouse or stepparent or CPR provides an appropriate address.

[^ 35]An example of a petition that could be statutorily denied is a case where the petition was based on a non-qualifying relationship, such as a joint petition submitted by a CPR child and the child’s grandparent. An example of a petition that could not be statutorily denied is a case where the petitioner submitted some evidence but the petition does not contain sufficient evidence to establish eligibility.

[^ 36]If no U.S. address is available, USCIS may hold the petition until the petitioning spouse or stepparent or CPR provides an appropriate address.

[^ 37]For additional information about RFEs, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)].

[^ 38]See8 CFR 216.1.

[^ 39]See Volume 12, Citizenship & Naturalization, Part G, Spouses of U.S. Citizens, Chapter 5, Conditional Permanent Resident Spouses and Naturalization [12 USCIS-PM G.5].

[^ 40]For additional information about RFEs, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 6, Evidence, Section F, Requests for Evidence and Notices of Intent to Deny [1 USCIS-PM E.6(F)].

[^ 41]SeeINA 216(c)(3)(A)(ii). See8 CFR 216.4(c)and8 CFR 216.4(a)(5).

[^ 42]SeeINA 216(d)(3). See8 CFR 216.4(b)(1).

[^ 43]If the petitioning spouse is not deceased. SeeINA 216(c)(1)(B).

[^ 44]SeeINA 216(c)(1)(B). See8 CFR 216.5(d).

[^ 45]See8 CFR 216.5(d). See8 CFR 216.4(b)(3).

[^ 46]See8 CFR 216.4(c)(4).

[^ 47]See8 CFR 216.4(c)(4).

[^ 48]See8 CFR 216.4(c)(4).

H2: Resources

INA 201- Worldwide level of immigration

INA 202- Numerical limitations on individual foreign states

INA 203- Allocation of immigrant visas

INA 204,8 CFR 204- Procedure for granting immigrant status

INA 216,8 CFR 216- Conditional permanent resident status for certain alien spouses and sons and daughters

Section 384 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act           (PDF)- Penalties for disclosure of information

The Immigration Marriage Fraud Amendments of 1986           (PDF)

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion

I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status

I-751, Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence

DHS Implementation of Section 1367 Information Provisions            (PDF)

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

Information for Conditional Permanent Residents Seeking to Change the Basis of Form I-751 From a Waiver Based on Battery or Extreme Cruelty to a Joint Petition

H2: Appendices

Noappendicesavailable at this time.

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding family-based conditional permanent residents (CPRs).

6 USCIS-PM I.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

6 USCIS-PM I.2-Chapter 2 - Terms and Conditions of CPR Status

6 USCIS-PM I.3-Chapter 3 - Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence

6 USCIS-PM I.4-Chapter 4 - Joint Petitions and Individual Filing Requests

6 USCIS-PM I.5-Chapter 5 - Waiver of Joint Filing Requirement

6 USCIS-PM I.6-Chapter 6 - Decision and Post-Adjudication

6 USCIS-PM I.7-Chapter 7 - Effect of Removal Proceedings

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual on interview waiver criteria for family-based conditional permanent residents (CPRs) filing petitions to remove the conditions on permanent residence.

6 USCIS-PM I.3-Chapter 3 - Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization