H1: Chapter 3 - Courses and Enrollment, Full Course of Study, and Reduced Course Load

- Guidance

- Resources (16)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (7)

H2: A. Public High School

While F-1 and M-1 students may not attend a public elementary or middle school or a publicly funded adult education program, they may attend public high school.[1]

If F-1 or M-1 students are admitted for a fixed period of admission (not for duration of status) to attend a public high school and then apply to transfer schools or to attend a U.S. post-secondary school, they need to file an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status (Form I-539) to request an extension of stay to remain in the United States beyond their fixed period of admission.

H3: 1. F-1 Students

F-1 students are limited to a cumulative period of 12 months to attend a public high school.[2]F-1 high school students are typically admitted for a specific period of time rather than duration of status.[3]

F-1 students must provide proof that they have reimbursed the local educational agency that administers the public high school for the full, unsubsidized per capita cost of providing education at the school for the period of the student’s attendance.

H3: 2. M-1 Students

M-1 students are not subject to the same 12-month time limit on public high school attendance. However, M-1 students are admitted for a fixed time period that includes the period necessary to complete the course of study indicated on the Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20), plus practical training following completion of the course of study, plus an additional 30 days to depart the United States, but not to exceed a total period of 1 year.[4]

H2: B. Online and Distance Education Courses

H3: 1. F-1 Students

An F-1 student enrolled in classes for credit or classroom hours may only count one class or three credits (or the equivalent) per academic session (or the equivalent) toward the full course of study requirement if the class is:

- Taken online; or

- Through distance education not requiring physical attendance for any purpose integral to completion of the class.[5]

If the F-1 student’s course of study is in a language study program, no online or distance education classes count toward a student’s full course of study program.[6]If the F-1 student needs only one course to finish the program of study, it cannot be taken through online or distance education. Courses must have a physical presence requirement.[7]

H3: 2. M-1 Students

No online or distance education classes are counted toward an M-1 student’s full course of study requirement if such classes do not require the student’s physical attendance for any purpose integral to completion of the class.[8]For purposes of the M classification, an online or distance education course is a course that is offered principally through the use of television, audio, or computer transmission including open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, or computer conferencing.[9]

H2: C. Other Education Programs

H3: 1. Adult Education Programs

An F-1 or M-1 student may not enroll in an adult education program if it is funded in whole or in part by the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act or by any other federal, state, county, or municipal funding.[10]

H3: 2. English Language Training Programs

F-1 Students

F-1 students intending to pursue an English language training course of study must enroll in an English language training program that has been accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency recognized by the Department of Education.[11]English language training online or distance learning courses do not count towards the full course of study requirement.[12]Time spent in an English language training program also does not count towards the completion of one full academic year as an F-1 student.[13]However, if the student is receiving college credit for the language training at a Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-certified college or university, then the time counts towards the one academic year required to participate in a practical training program.[14]

M-1 Students

M-1 students are only permitted to engage in English language training if their primary intent is to pursue vocational or technical training and they are taking English language training at the same school solely for the purpose of being able to understand the vocational or technical course of study.[15]

H2: D. Concurrent Enrollment

An F-1 student may enroll in two different SEVP-certified schools at one time if the combined enrollment amounts to a full course of study.[16]In cases where a student is concurrently enrolled, the school from which the student will earn the student’s degree or certification should issue theForm I-20, and conduct subsequent certifications and updates to the Form I-20.[17]M-1 students may not be enrolled in two different SEVP-certified schools.

H2: E. Full Course of Study

DHS regulations require students to maintain a full course of study and that the successful completion of the full course of study leads to the attainment of a specific educational or professional objective.[18]

Full course of study requirements are different for F and M students.

H3: 1. F-1 Students

To qualify as a full course of study, the Designated School Official (DSO) must have previously certified as a full course of study one of the following, as appropriate:[19]

- Postgraduate or postdoctoral study at a college or university;[20]

- Undergraduate or postgraduate study at a conservatory or religious seminary;[21]

- Undergraduate study at a college or university consisting of at least 12 semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term in those institutions using standard semester, trimester, or quarter hour systems, and where all students enrolled for a minimum of 12 semester or quarter hours are charged full-time tuition or considered full-time for other administrative purposes, or its equivalent (as determined by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) SEVP in the school certification process) unless those students will complete their course of study during the current term with fewer semester or quarter hours;[22]

- Postsecondary language, liberal arts, fine arts, or other non-vocational program for which a school must confer recognized associate or other degrees upon its graduates or establish that its credits have been and are accepted unconditionally by at least three institutions of higher learning meeting specific requirements;[23]

- Any other language, liberal arts, fine arts, or other non-vocational training program consisting of at least 18 clock hours of attendance a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of classroom instruction, or consists of at least 22 clock hours a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of laboratory work;[24]or

- Curriculum at an approved private elementary or middleschool or public orprivateacademic high school consisting of class attendance for not less than the minimum number of hours a week prescribed by the school for normal progress towards graduation.[25]

H3: 2. M-1 Students

To qualify as a full course of study, the DSO must have previously certified as a full course of study one of the following, as appropriate:

- Community college or junior college studies consisting of at least 12 semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term in those institutions using standard semester, trimester, or quarter-hour systems, and where all students enrolled for a minimum of 12 semester or quarter hours are charged full-time tuition or considered full-time for other administrative purposes, or its equivalent (as determined by ICE SEVP in the school certification process) except when the students need a lesser course load to complete the course of study during the current term;[26]

- Postsecondary vocational or business school programs, other than in a language training program,[27]which confer upon their graduates recognized associate or other degrees or have established that their credits have been and are accepted unconditionally by at least three institutions of higher learning which are either: a school (or school system) owned and operated as a public educational institution by the United States or a state or political subdivision; or a school accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body; and consisting of at least 12 hours of instruction a week, or its equivalent as determined by ICE SEVP in the school certification process;[28]

- Vocational or other nonacademic curriculum studies, other than in a language training program,[29]consisting of at least 18 hours of attendance a week if the main part of the course of study consists of classroom instruction, or at least 22 hours a week if the main part of the course of study consists of shop or laboratory work;[30]or

- Vocational or other nonacademic high school curriculum, consisting of class attendance for not less than the minimum number of hours a week prescribed by the school for normal progress towards graduation.[31]

H3: 3. Border Commuter Students

A border commuter student must be enrolled in a full course of study, even though on a part-time basis, leading to the attainment of a specific educational or professional objective. A DSO at the school may authorize an eligible border commuter student to enroll in a reduced course load below the requirements for a full course of study. The reduced course load must be consistent with the border commuter student’s certified course of study.[32]

H2: F. Reduced Course Load

H3: 1. F-1 Students

To maintain status while on a reduced course load, the F-1 student must first obtain authorization from the DSO before dropping to a reduced course load. A student who drops below a full course of study without the prior approval of the DSO is considered out of status.[33]A DSO may authorize an F-1 student for a reduced course load for one of the following reasons.

Specified Initial Academic Difficulties

A DSO may authorize a reduced course load due to academic difficulties once while the student is pursuing a course of study at that program level.[34]A student authorized to drop below a full course of study for academic difficulties while pursuing a course of study at a particular program level may still be authorized for a reduced course load due to an illness or medical condition.[35]The student must resume a full course at the start of the next available term or session, excluding a summer session.

An F-1 student taking a reduced course load must still be taking at least 6 semester or quarter hours or half the clock hours required for a full course of study.

Temporary Illness or Medical Condition

A DSO may authorize a reduced course load, or, if necessary, no course load, one or more times for medical reasons, even if the DSO had previously authorized the student to drop below a full course of study for academic difficulties.[36]The period of time cannot exceed an aggregate of 12 months while the student is pursuing a course of study at a particular program level.

The student must provide documentation of the illness or medical condition from a licensed medical doctor, psychiatrist, doctor of osteopathy, licensed psychologist, or clinical psychologist.

Completion of Course of Study

A DSO may authorize a reduced course load when a student needs fewer courses than a full course load in the student’s last term to complete the program of study.[37]

H3: 2. M-1 Students

To maintain status while pursuing a reduced course load, an M-1 student must first obtain their DSO’s authorization.[38]A DSO may authorize an M-1 student for a reduced course load only if the student provides documentation of an illness or medical condition from a licensed medical doctor, psychiatrist, doctor of osteopathy, licensed psychologist, or clinical psychologist. A DSO may authorize a reduced course load more than once, but the total period of reduced course load cannot exceed an aggregate of 5 months per course of study.

H3: 3. Border Commuter Student

A DSO may authorize a border commuter student to enroll in a reduced course load for the above listed reasons, provided that the reduced course load is consistent with the border commuter student’s certified course of study.[39]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(E)(defining a full course of study, in part, for F-1 students as “study in a curriculum at a certified private elementary or middle school or public or private academic high school”) and8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(iv)(defining a full course of study, in part, for M-1 students as “study in a vocational or other nonacademic high school curriculum”).

[^ 2]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i). There is no such limitation to an F-1’s attendance at a private high school.

[^ 3]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i).

[^ 4]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(5).

[^ 5]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G).

[^ 6]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G).

[^ 7]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G). Beginning in March 2020, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) issued guidance related to online or distance learning, full course of study, and other student-related policy changes due to the COVID-19 public health emergency on itsCOVID-19 Guidelines and Protocolswebsite. On May 11, 2023, ICE announced the termination of this guidance. Active F and M students were able to complete the 2022–23 academic year under the COVID-19 flexibilities through the 2023 summer semester. However, active F and M students will not be permitted to count online classes toward a full course of study in excess of the regulatory limits stated in8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(v)for the 2023–24 academic year. Initial or re-entering students must enroll in programs complying with the regulatory limits for distance learning as stated in8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G). Designated School Officials (DSO) should not issue a Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20) for students in new or initial status who are outside of the United States and plan to take classes at an educational institution certified by the ICE Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) for a program of study that contains online components in excess of the regulatory limits. ICE’s website should be consulted for the latest guidance.

[^ 8]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(v).

[^ 9]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(v).

[^ 10]See Section 203(1) of the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act,Pub. L. 105-220  (PDF), 112 Stat. 1059, 1060 (August 7, 1998). Adult education program is defined as a service or instruction below the post-secondary level for individuals who have attained 16 years of age; who are not enrolled or required to be enrolled in secondary school under state law; who lack sufficient mastery of basic educational skills to enable the individuals to function effectively in society; do not have a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent and have not achieved an equivalent level of education; or are unable to speak, read, or write the English language.

[^ 11]See Accreditation of English Language Training Programs Act,Pub. L. 111-306  (PDF)(December 14, 2010). The Act amendedINA 101(a)(15)(F)(i)to state that F-1 nonimmigrant students intending to pursue an English language training course of study must enroll in an English language training program that has been accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency recognized by the Department of Education.

[^ 12]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G).

[^ 13]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G).

[^ 14]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G).

[^ 15]See8 CFR 214.3(a)(2)(iv).

[^ 16]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iv). The concurrent enrollment provision is applicable to those students who will be registered less than full-time at the school that issued theirForm I-20, and who are relying on enrollment at another school to meet the requirement that they be enrolled for a full course of study. As long as a student is enrolled full-time at the institution that issued the student’s Form I-20, the student does not need special permission to take an additional class at another school.

[^ 17]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iv). The DSO from the school where the F-1 student will earn the student’s degree is responsible for the reporting requirements to DHS. In instances where a student is enrolled in programs with different full course of study requirements (for example,clock hours vs. credit hours), the DSO is permitted to determine what constitutes a full course of study.

[^ 18]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i). If the student fails to carry a full-course load unless authorized by DSO in accordance with8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii), the student has failed to maintain a valid F-1 status. This is not applicable during the student’s summer (or other authorized) break if the student is eligible and intends to register for the next term.

[^ 19]SeeINA 101(a)(15)(F)(i). Beginning in March 2020, ICE issued guidance related to online or distance learning, full course of study, and other student-related policy changes due to the COVID-19 public health emergency on itsCOVID-19 Guidelines and Protocolswebsite. On May 11, 2023, ICE announced the termination of this guidance. Active F and M students were able to complete the 2022–23 academic year under the COVID-19 flexibilities through the 2023 summer semester. However, active F and M students will not be permitted to count online classes toward a full course of study in excess of the regulatory limits stated in8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(v)for the 2023–24 academic year. Initial or re-entering students must enroll in programs complying with the regulatory limits for distance learning as stated in8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(G). DSOs should not issue a Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20) for students in new or initial status who are outside of the United States and plan to take classes at an educational institution certified by the ICE SEVP for a program of study that contains online components in excess of the regulatory limits. ICE’s website should be consulted for the latest guidance.

[^ 20]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(A).

[^ 21]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(A).

[^ 22]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(B).

[^ 23]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(C). The institutions of higher learning must be either: “(1) a school (or school system) owned and operated as a public educational institution by the United States or a State or political subdivision thereof; or (2) a school accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body and which has been certified by a designated school official to consist of at least 12 clock hours of instruction a week, or its equivalent as determined by SEVP in the school certification process.”

[^ 24]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(D).

[^ 25]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(i)(E).

[^ 26]SeeINA 101(a)(15)(M)(i). See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(i).

[^ 27]Postsecondary vocational or business school and vocational or other nonacademic curriculum exclude language training programs unless the student enrolled in vocational or technical training takes English language training at the same school solely for the purpose of understanding a course of study. See8 CFR 214.3(a)(2)(iv).

[^ 28]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(ii).

[^ 29]Postsecondary vocational or business school and vocational or other nonacademic curriculum exclude language training programs unless the student enrolled in vocational or technical training takes English language training at the same school solely for the purpose of understanding a course of study. See8 CFR 214.3(a)(2)(iv).

[^ 30]See8 CFR 214.2 (m)(9)(iii).

[^ 31]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(iv).

[^ 32]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(18)(ii)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(19)(ii).

[^ 33]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii).

[^ 34]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii)(A). The DSO may authorize a reduced course load due to a student’s initial difficulty with the English language or reading requirements, unfamiliarity with U.S. teaching methods, or improper course level placement.

[^ 35]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii)(A).

[^ 36]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii)(B)and8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii)(A).

[^ 37]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(6)(iii)(C).

[^ 38]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(9)(vi).

[^ 39]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(18)(ii)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(19)(ii).

H2: Resources

22 CFR 41.61Students - academic and nonacademic

8 CFR 214.1(c)(5)- Decision on application for extension or change of status

8 CFR 214.13- SEVIS fee for certain F, J, and M nonimmigrants

8 CFR 214.2(f)- Students in colleges, universities, seminaries, conservatories, academic high schools, elementary schools, other academic institutions, and in language training programs

8 CFR 214.2(m)- Students in established vocational or other recognized nonacademic institutions, other than in language training programs

8 CFR 214.2(q)(5)(ii)- Petition for multiple participants

8 CFR 214.3- Approval of schools for enrollment of F and M nonimmigrants

8 CFR 274a.12(c)- Aliens who must apply for employment authorization

INA 101(a)(15)(F)- Academic student definition

INA 101(a)(15)(M)- Vocational student definition

INA 214(c)- Admission of nonimmigrants

INA 214(m)- Nonimmigrant elementary and secondary school students

INA 248,8 CFR 248- Change of nonimmigrant classification

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-539, Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

TABLE:
Requirement | F-1 | M-1
Acceptance at a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-certified school | Required | Required
Bona fide student pursuing full course of study | Required | Required
Sufficient funds | Must have sufficient funds that are or will be available to successfully study without resorting to unauthorized employment in the United States for financial support | Must have immediately available funds or assurances of support necessary to pay all tuition and living costs for the entire period of intended stay
Full-time study | Required, unless Designated School Official (DSO) or the Secretary of Homeland Security (in a Federal Register notice) authorizes a reduced course load | Required, unless DSO authorizes a reduced course load for medical reasons
Public schools | No study permitted at a public school for kindergarten through grade eight. Study is only permitted at an U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-certified public high school (grades nine through 12) and is limited to 12 months. The student must demonstrate that they have paid the unsubsidized cost of the education to the educational agency. | No study permitted at a public school for kindergarten through grade eight
School transfers | Allowed, DSO must record in Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) | Allowed if it is less than 6 months into program of study and student cannot remain at present school due to circumstances beyond their control. USCIS must authorize. Student cannot change educational objective.
Curricular Practical Training | Allowed, DSO must authorize | Not applicable
Optional Practical Training (OPT) (pre-completion) | Allowed, if student has been enrolled for 1 full academic year. Must be directly related to the student’s major area of study. Cannot be full-time while school is in session. DSO must endorse, and USCIS must approve and issue employment authorization document (EAD) prior to the student starting OPT. | Not applicable
OPT (post-completion) | Allowed, must be directly related to the student’s major area of study. Requires DSO endorsement, approval by USCIS, and issuance of EAD | Not applicable
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) OPT Extension | Allowed, must have a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree, or doctorate degree that is on theSTEM Designated Degree Program List            (PDF); receive DSO endorsement; and receive USCIS approval to qualify for a 24-month OPT extension | Not applicable
Practical Training | Not applicable | Allowed after completion of the student’s course of study. Must be related to the student’s course of study, and employment comparable to the proposed employment is not available to the student in the country of the student’s foreign residence. Requires approval by USCIS and issuance of EAD.
Maximum Stay | Duration of status | 1 year, plus extensions not to exceed 3 years
Program Extension | Allowed, if the student has continually maintained F-1 status, the need is caused by a compelling academic or medical reason, and the student applies to the student’s DSO for the extension before the student’s Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20) expires | Allowed, the maximum cumulative time of extensions is 3 years from original start date. M-1s must apply for an extension beyond the end date of their Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94) by filing an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status (Form I-539) with USCIS
Family members | Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 are eligible for the F-2 visa classification | Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 are eligible for the M-2 visa classification

F-1

M-1

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding when students may be eligible for optional practical training (OPT) for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields; as well as clarifying guidance concerning online study, school transfers, the grace period, and study abroad.

2 USCIS-PM F.3-Chapter 3 - Courses and Enrollment, Full Course of Study, and Reduced Course Load

2 USCIS-PM F.4-Chapter 4 - School Transfer

2 USCIS-PM F.5-Chapter 5 - Practical Training

2 USCIS-PM F.7-Chapter 7 - Absences From the United States

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the nonimmigrant student (F and M) classifications, including USCIS’ role in the adjudication of applications for employment authorization and change or reinstatement of status to F or M classifications.

2 USCIS-PM F.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

2 USCIS-PM F.2-Chapter 2 - Eligibility Requirements

2 USCIS-PM F.3-Chapter 3 - Courses and Enrollment, Full Course of Study, and Reduced Course Load

2 USCIS-PM F.4-Chapter 4 - School Transfer

2 USCIS-PM F.5-Chapter 5 - Practical Training

2 USCIS-PM F.6-Chapter 6 - Employment

2 USCIS-PM F.7-Chapter 7 - Absences From the United States

2 USCIS-PM F.8-Chapter 8 - Change of Status, Extension of Stay, and Length of Stay

2 USCIS-PM F.9-Chapter 9 - Dependents

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is revising its policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with the Fee Schedule and Changes to Certain Other Immigration Benefit Request Requirements Final Rule, published in the Federal Register on August 3, 2020. This guidance becomes effective October 2, 2020. For information regarding implementation, seeAppendix: 2020 Fee Rule Litigation Summary.

1 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Public Services

1 USCIS-PM B-Part B - Submission of Benefit Requests

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

7 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Adjustment of Status Policies and Procedures

7 USCIS-PM F-Part F - Special Immigrant-Based Adjustment

7 USCIS-PM M-Part M - Asylee Adjustment

11 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Secure Identity Documents Policies and Procedures

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization