H1: Chapter 3 - Oath of Allegiance Modifications and Waivers

- Guidance

- Resources (10)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (9)

The table below serves as a quick reference guide on general requirements for oath modifications and oath waiver. The sections and paragraphs that follow the table provide further guidance on each modification and oath waiver.

TABLE:
Request | Permitted Modifications to Oath | Testimony or Evidence
Modified Oath for Religious or Conscientious Objections | Deletion of either or both of the following clauses:Bearing arms on behalf of the United States if required by law [INA 337(a)(5)(A)]; andPerforming noncombatant service in the U.S. armed forces when required by law [INA 337(a)(5)(B)] | Must show opposition to clause (or clauses) based on religious training and belief or deeply held moral or ethical code. Applicant may provide an attestation or witness statement.
Affirmation of Allegiance in Lieu of Oath | Substitution of the words “solemnly affirm” for the words “on oath” and no recitation of the words “so help me God” [8 CFR 337.1(b)] | Not Required
Waiver of the Oath | Requirement to take the Oath of Allegiance may be waived | Evaluation by medical professional stating inability to understand or communicate the meaning of the oath due to a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment.

Deletion of either or both of the following clauses:

Bearing arms on behalf of the United States if required by law [INA 337(a)(5)(A)]; and

Performing noncombatant service in the U.S. armed forces when required by law [INA 337(a)(5)(B)]

H2: A. Modified Oath for Religious or Conscientious Objections

H3: 1. General Modifications to the Oath

An applicant may request a modified oath that does not contain one or both of the following clauses:

- To bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law; and

- To perform noncombatant service in the U.S. armed forces when required by the law.[1]

In order to modify the oath, the applicant must demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that he or she is unwilling or unable to affirm to these sections of the oath based on his or her religious training and belief, which may include a deeply held moral or ethical code.[2]

There is no exemption from the clause “to perform work of national importance under civilian direction when required by the law.”[3]

H3: 2. Qualifying for Modification to the Oath

Three-Part Test

In order for an applicant to qualify for a modification based on his or her “religious training and belief,” the applicant must satisfy a three-part test. An applicant must establish that:

- He or she is opposed to bearing arms in the U.S. armed forces or opposed to any type of service in the U.S. armed forces;

- The objection is grounded in his or her religious principles, to include other belief systems similar to traditional religion or a deeply held moral or ethical code; and

- His or her beliefs are sincere, meaningful, and deeply held.[4]

The applicant is not eligible for a modified oath when he or she is opposed to a specific war. Religious training or belief does not include essentially political, sociological, or philosophical views. An applicant whose objection to war is based upon opinions or beliefs about public policy and the practicality or desirability of combat, or whose beliefs are not deeply held, does not qualify for the modification of the oath.

Applicant is Not Required to Belong to a Church or Religion

In addition, qualification for the exemption is not dependent upon membership in a particular religious group, nor does membership in a specific religious group provide an automatic modification to the oath. The applicant is not required to:

- Belong to a specific church or religious denomination;

- Follow a particular theology or belief; or

- Have religious training.

However, the applicant must have a sincere and meaningful belief that has a place in the applicant’s life that is equivalent to that of a religious belief.[5]Because of this belief, for example, the applicant’s conscience may not rest or be at peace if allowed to become an instrument of war.[6]

Evidence Establishing Eligibility

An applicant may provide, but is not required to provide, an attestation from a religious organization (or similar organization), witness statement, or any other evidence to establish eligibility. An applicant’s oral testimony or written statement may be sufficient to qualify for the modification. An officer may ask an applicant questions regarding the applicant’s beliefs in order to determine whether the applicant is eligible for the modification of the oath, to include, a review of the following factors:

- General pattern of pertinent conduct and experiences;

- Nature of applicant’s objection and principles on which objection is based;

- Training in the home or a religious organization;

- Participation in religious or other similar activities; and

- Whether the applicant gained his or her ethical or moral beliefs through training, study, self-contemplation, or other activities comparable to formulating traditional religious beliefs in the home or through a religious organization.

An officer must not question the validity of what an applicant believes or the existence or truth of the concepts in which the applicant believes.[7]

Failure to Provide Evidence During Interview

If, during the interview, the applicant does not provide any oral testimony or other evidence that the applicant’s objection to the oath is based upon sincere, meaningful, and deeply held beliefs such as religious, moral, or ethical beliefs, or the applicant refuses to explain the basis of the objection, the officer should provide the applicant an additional opportunity to establish eligibility for the modification before concluding the interview.

Officers should not conclude that an applicant is ineligible for the oath modification if the applicant fails to provide such oral testimony or other evidence at the interview. Officers should issue a Request for Evidence (RFE) to give the applicant an additional opportunity to provide testimony, a statement, or to submit evidence to demonstrate eligibility for the modification.

Results

If an applicant qualifies for a modified oath, USCIS omits only the relevant clauses and the applicant recites the modified form of the oath at the regularly scheduled public naturalization ceremony.[8]An applicant who does not qualify for the modification is required to take the full oath. Otherwise, the applicant is not eligible for naturalization.

H2: B. Affirmation of Allegiance in Lieu of Oath

An applicant may request an affirmation in lieu of an oath. The applicant may request this affirmation in lieu of an oath for any reason.[9]In these cases:

- The applicant substitutes the words “solemnly affirm” for the words “on oath”; and

- ​The applicant does not recite the words “so help me God.”[10]

USCIS grants this modification solely upon the applicant’s request. The applicant is not required to establish that the request is based solely on his or her religious training and belief. Applicants are not required to provide any documentary evidence or testimony to support a request to substitute the words “on oath” or “so help me God.”

USCIS must not require the applicant to recite the deleted portions of the Oath of Allegiance at the ceremony. The officer informs the applicant that he or she is not required to recite the deleted portions and that the applicant may take the oath in the modified form.

H2: C. Waiver of the Oath

H3: 1. Oath of Allegiance Waiver

Oath Waiver Based on a Physical or Developmental Disability or Mental Impairment

USCIS may waive the Oath of Allegiance for an applicant who is unable to understand or to communicate an understanding of its meaning because of a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment.[11]

An applicant for whom USCIS granted an oath waiver is considered to have met the requirement of attachment to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and be well disposed to the good order and happiness of the United States for the required period.

An applicant who needs an oath waiver because of a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment, may make this request, with the assistance of a legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative, on a Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions (Form N-648).[12]An applicant is not required to submit a specific form to request an oath waiver,[13]and may instead provide a written request and a written evaluation[14]by an authorized medical professional.[15]​

USCIS reserves the right to request documentation if there is a question upon examination about the applicant’s disability and ability to understand or communicate an understanding of the oath. If USCIS approves the oath waiver, USCIS does not require the applicant to appear in a public ceremony.

USCIS accepts an oath waiver request at any point of the naturalization process, until the time of the oath ceremony. Field offices should work with the legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative before the initial examination to obtain all the necessary documentation.[16]

Oath Waiver for Children under 14 Years of Age

The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) permits USCIS to waive the taking of the Oath of Allegiance if USCIS determines the person is unable to understand its meaning.[17]USCIS has determined that children under the age of 14 are generally unable to understand the meaning of the oath. Accordingly, USCIS waives the oath requirement for a child younger than 14 years of age, at the time of naturalization. If USCIS waives the oath requirement, USCIS issues a Certificate of Citizenship after the officer approves the application.[18]

H3: 2. Legal Guardian, Surrogate, or Designated Representative

When an applicant is unable to undergo any part of the naturalization examination because of a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment, a legal guardian, surrogate, or an eligible designated representative completes the naturalization process for the applicant. USCIS waives the Oath of Allegiance and the legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative attests to the applicant’s eligibility for naturalization.In addition to an oath waiver, this process may require accommodations including off-site examinations.

When an oath waiver is provided, a legal guardian, surrogate, or designated representative signs on behalf of an applicant who is unable to understand or communicate an understanding of the Oath of Allegiance because of a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment. The legal guardian, surrogate, or representative acts on behalf of an applicant with a disability at every stage of the naturalization examination. The legal guardian, surrogate, or representative files the application on behalf of the applicant and must have knowledge of the facts supporting the applicant’s eligibility for naturalization.

The guardian, surrogate, or representative addresses every requirement for naturalization and bears the burden of establishing the applicant’s eligibility for naturalization.

Persons eligible to act on behalf of the applicant include:

- A person who a proper court has designated as the applicant’s legal guardian or surrogate and who is authorized to exercise legal authority over the applicant’s affairs;[19]or

- In the absence of a legal guardian or surrogate, a U.S. citizen spouse, parent, adult son or daughter, or adult brother or sister, who is the primary custodial caregiver and who takes responsibility for the applicant.

USCIS will only recognize one designated representative in the following order of priority:[20]

- Legal guardian or surrogate (highest priority)

- ​U.S. citizen spouse

- U.S. citizen parent

- U.S. citizen adult son or daughter

- U.S. citizen adult brother or sister (lowest priority)

The person acting on behalf of the applicant must provide proof of legal guardianship, or documentation to establish the familial relationship, such as a birth certificate, marriage certificate, or adoption decree. In addition, the person must provide documentation to establish that he or she has the primary custodial care and responsibility for the applicant (for example, income tax returns, Social Security Administration documents, and affidavits from other relatives). A spouse, parent, adult son or daughter, or adult brother or sister who is not the legal guardian or surrogate must provide evidence of U.S. citizenship.

USCIS continues an application where the family member acting as a designated representative is not a U.S. citizen. USCIS explains to the family member why he or she is not qualified to act as a designated representative and offers the applicant an opportunity to bring another person who may qualify.

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 337(a)(5)(A)andINA 337(a)(5)(B).

[^ 2]The Supreme Court has addressed the meaning of “religious training and belief” in the context of exemptions from military service under section 6(j) of the Universal Military Training and Service Act.” SeeWelsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970) (holding that Welsh, who characterized his beliefs as nonreligious and expressed doubt in the existence of a Supreme Being, was entitled to a conscientious objector exemption to military service because his beliefs occupied a parallel place in his life to that of religious convictions);United States. v. Seeger, 380 U.S. 163 (1965) (stating that the applicable test for determining whether someone’s belief was based on religious training and belief was whether the belief was sincere and meaningful and “occup[ied] in the life of its possessor a place parallel to that filled by the God of those admittedly qualifying for the exemption”). SeeINA 337(a)which contains virtually the same language regarding religious training and belief as was addressed by the Supreme Court inWelsh and Seeger.

[^ 3]SeeINA 337(a)(5)(C).

[^ 4]SeeINA 337. SeeWelsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970). SeeUnited States. v. Seeger, 380 U.S. 163 (1965).

[^ 5]SeeWelsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970). SeeUnited States. v. Seeger, 380 U.S. 163 (1965).

[^ 6]SeeWelsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970).

[^ 7]SeeUnited States. v. Seeger, 380 U.S. 163 (1965): “The validity of what he believes cannot be questioned. Some theologians, and indeed some examiners, might be tempted to question the existence of the registrant’s ‘Supreme Being’ or the truth of his concepts. But these are inquiries foreclosed to Government.”

[^ 8]See Chapter 1, Purpose and Background, Section A, Purpose [12 USCIS-PM J.1(A)]. SeeINA 337. See8 CFR 337.1(b).

[^ 9]The INA indicates that the affirmation is requested “by reason of religious training and belief (or individual interpretation thereof), or for other reasons of good conscience.” SeeINA 337(a).

[^ 10]See8 CFR 337.1(b).

[^ 11]SeeINA 337(a). SeePub. L. 106-448  (PDF)enacted on November 6, 2000.

[^ 12]USCIS will continue to accept a written request for an oath waiver even if an oath waiver is not requested on the Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions (Form N-648).

[^ 13]The oath waiver requirements are distinct from the requirements for the medical disability exception to the English and civics requirements for naturalization underINA 312(b). See Part E, English and Civics Testing and Exceptions, Chapter 3, Medical Disability Exception (Form N-648) [12 USCIS-PM E.3].

[^ 14]The written evaluation establishes the applicant’s inability to take the Oath of Allegiance. The written evaluation must be completed and signed by an authorized medical professional and explain how the applicant’s physical or developmental disability or mental impairment prevents the applicant from being able to understand or communicate an understanding of the meaning of the Oath of Allegiance. The applicant is still required to submitForm N-648to be exempted from the educational requirements.

[^ 15]For information on who is an authorized medical professional, see Part E, English and Civics Testing and Exceptions, Chapter 3, Medical Disability Exception (Form N-648), Section E, Authorized Medical Professionals [12 USCIS-PM E.3(E)].

[^ 16]See Subsection 2, Legal Guardian, Surrogate, or Designated Representative [12 USCIS-PM J.3(C)(2)].

[^ 17]SeeINA 337(a). See8 CFR 341.5(b).

[^ 18]See Part H, Children of U.S. Citizens [12 USCIS-PM H].

[^ 19]A legal guardian or surrogate may act on behalf of an applicant regardless of the legal guardian or surrogate’s immigration status or whether he or she is a family member.

[^ 20]If there is a conflict in priority between two or more persons seeking to represent the applicant, and the individuals share the same degree of familial relationship, USCIS gives priority to the person who is older.

H2: Resources

INA 332,8 CFR 332- Naturalization administration, executive functions

INA 337,8 CFR 337- Oath of renunciation and allegiance

INA 341,8 CFR 341- Certificates of citizenship

Pub. L. 106-448        (PDF)- Waiver of Oath of Renunciation and Allegiance for Naturalization of Aliens having Certain Disabilities Act of 2000

G-1055, Fee Schedule

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

Citizenship Resource Center: Check for Test Updates

Citizenship Resource Center: Study for the Test

Citizenship Resource Center: The Naturalization Interview and Test

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

Before October 29, 2019, USCIS considered children of members of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employees, who were stationed outside of the United States, to meet the requirement of “is residing in” the United States for the purpose of acquiring citizenship underINA 320.[1]This interpretation was consistent with the definition of “residence” for purposes of naturalization underINA 316.[2]Based on this treatment of U.S. government employees and their children in the context of naturalization under INA 316, USCIS determined that “residing in the United States” for purposes of acquisition of citizenship under INA 320 should likewise be interpreted to include children of U.S. military and government employees stationed outside of the United States who were residing with their parents.[3]

This interpretation, however, was inconsistent with other provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), including the definition of “residence” atINA 101(a)(33)and language inINA 322(a)andINA 322(d), which suggested that the citizenship of military children residing outside of the United States should be considered under that provision rather than under INA 320. Effective October 29, 2019, USCIS amended its policy guidance to address these concerns, and determined that children of members of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employees stationed outside of the United States would not be eligible for citizenship acquisition under INA 320.[4]

On March 26, 2020, the Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act was enacted,[5]amending INA 320, so that a child residing with his or her U.S. citizen parent, who is stationed outside of the United States as a member of the U.S. armed forces or a U.S. government employee, or is residing in marital union with a member of the U.S. armed forces or a U.S. government employee who is stationed outside of the United States, acquires citizenship under INA 320 if all requirements of INA 320(c) and INA 320(a)(1)-(2) are met. In line with the statute, USCIS rescinds its previous guidance, clarifying that these children are eligible to acquire citizenship under INA 320 if all other requirements under INA 320 are met.

The amendment to INA 320 applies to children who were under the age of 18 on March 26, 2020.

H3: Footnotes

[^ 1]Even though the child of a member of the U.S. armed forces or U.S. government employee stationed outside of the United States may be eligible to apply for a Certificate of Citizenship underINA 322since he or she resides outside of the United States, USCIS interpreted the child to meet residency requirements underINA 320as well, which formerly required the child to be residing in the United States with his or her parent to acquire citizenship.

[^ 2]For example, U.S. government employees, including members of the U.S. armed forces, are eligible to apply for an exception to the continuous residence requirement for naturalization under INA 316 as long as their residency outside of the United States was on behalf of the U.S. government. SeeINA 316(b). SeeINA 316(a). See Part D, General Naturalization Requirements, Chapter 3, Continuous Residence [12 USCIS-PM D.3].

[^ 3]See Policy Manual Technical Update,Child Citizenship Act and Children of U.S. Government Employees Residing Abroad(July 20, 2015); and Acquisition of Citizenship by Children of U.S. Military and Government Employees Stationed Abroad under Section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), No. 103, issued May 6, 2004.

[^ 4]See USCIS Policy Alert, Defining “Residence” in Statutory Provisions Related to Citizenship[PA-2019-05]. This Policy Alert has been superseded by Policy Manual updates to reflect changes made underPub. L. 116-133                                             (PDF).

[^ 5]SeePub. L. 116-133                                             (PDF)(March 26, 2020).

H2: Updates

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to clarify how medical professionals can properly complete the new version of the Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions (Form N-648) and request oath waivers based on a physical or developmental disability or mental impairment.

12 USCIS-PM E.3-Chapter 3 - Medical Disability Exception (Form N-648)

12 USCIS-PM J.2-Chapter 2 - The Oath of Allegiance

12 USCIS-PM J.3-Chapter 3 - Oath of Allegiance Modifications and Waivers

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to clarify guidance related to requests for modifications to the Oath of Allegiance.

12 USCIS-PM J.3-Chapter 3 - Oath of Allegiance Modifications and Waivers

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update provides clarification on the medical professionals (medical doctors, doctors of osteopathy, and clinical psychologists) authorized to complete a written evaluation of medical condition in connection with an oath waiver request.

12 USCIS-PM J.3-Chapter 3 - Oath of Allegiance Modifications and Waivers

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance to clarify the eligibility requirements for modifications to the Oath of Renunciation and Allegiance for naturalization.

12 USCIS-PM J.3-Chapter 3 - Oath of Allegiance Modifications and Waivers

USCIS is issuing updated and comprehensive citizenship and naturalization policy guidance in the new USCIS Policy Manual.

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization