H1: Chapter 8 - Change of Status, Extension of Stay, and Length of Stay

- Guidance

- Resources (16)

- Appendices (1)

- Updates (8)

H2: A. General Eligibility for Change of Status to F-1

H3: 1. Eligible Nonimmigrants

In general, nonimmigrants who have been lawfully admitted to the United States and maintain the status in which they were admitted (or previously changed to) may seek to change from one visa classification underINA 101(a)(15)to another, with certain restrictions.[1]The alien must meet all eligibility criteria for the new visa classification.[2]

Generally, a nonimmigrant may apply to change to F-1 status while remaining in the United States if:

- The alien was lawfully admitted to the United States in a nonimmigrant status;

- The alien’s nonimmigrant status remains valid;

- The alien has not violated the conditions of the alien's nonimmigrant status;[3]and

- The alien merits a favorable exercise of discretion.[4]

The decision to grant a change of status request involves an exercise of discretion by USCIS. There are a number of factors or factual circumstances that USCIS officers consider when conducting a discretionary analysis.[5]

H3: 2. Timing and Effective Date

Academic Program Start Date

In general, upon approval of a change of status (COS) to F-1, F-1 students may not engage in any student activities (with certain exceptions)[6]until 30 days before their academic program start date.

Officers grant the COS with an effective date of the applicant’s F-1 status as the day of final adjudication (approval), regardless of whether it falls within 30 days of the academic program start date.

If a COS to F-1 application is approved more than 30 days before the program start date, the nonimmigrant must ensure that they do not violate their F-1 status during that period of time. The student must ensure they maintain status by not engaging in impermissible activities.

For example, engaging in any employment, including on-campus employment and practical training more than 30 days before the program start date, is a violation of F-1 status.[7]In general, F-1 students admitted for duration of status who violate the terms of their status, begin to accrue unlawful presence on the day after USCIS or an immigration judge determines that they have violated their nonimmigrant status.[8]

In all cases, the student must fully comply with all applicable requirements of theStudent and Exchange Visitor Program(SEVP).

Duration of Status

Regulations define the nonimmigrant student’s “duration of status” as the time during which an F-1 nonimmigrant is “pursuing a full course of study” at the approved educational institution.[9]USCIS considers the period of time between the approval of the COS to F-1 classification and the F-1 program start date as falling within the provision of “pursuing a full course of study.” This applies if the F-1 student continues to intend to pursue that course of study and does not otherwise violate their F-1 nonimmigrant status.

USCIS considers this period of time between the date of approval and the program start date as similar to the period of time and purpose a student is in the United States during summer vacation in F-1 status (such a break in classes does not interrupt status).

Deferring Program Start Date

If a COS to F-1 application is not approved before the program start date reflected on the initial “Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status” (Form I-20), the applicant must request that their Designated School Official (DSO) defer the program start date in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) before the current program start date has been reached.

The applicant can monitor the status of their pending COS application and, in accordance with instructions provided on theSEVP website, may contact the DSO if it appears that the program start date may need to be deferred. The applicant and the DSO are responsible for ensuring that the SEVIS record is not terminated while the COS is pending.

Background

USCIS historically only granted applications to change to F-1 status within 30 days of the program start date listed on the applicant’s Form I-20. USCIS required nonimmigrants applying for COS to F-1 classification to continuously obtain nonimmigrant status up to 30 days before the start date of the program of study listed on the Form I-20, even if that required filing an initial extension and later a subsequent extension or extensions, or filing a COS and subsequent extension or extensions. This policy prevented students from incurring a “gap” in status prior to 30 days before the program’s start date, but resulted in the potential filing and adjudication of multiple, duplicative COS or extension of stay (sometimes referred to as “bridging”) applications.

In order to limit costs to applicants and the government, especially during periods of high volume and extended adjudication times, USCIS no longer requires the applicant to submit subsequent applications for extension or change of nonimmigrant status while the COS to F-1 application is pending with USCIS, provided that the applicant’s nonimmigrant status is unexpired at the time of filing the initial COS to F-1 application, and the applicant otherwise remains eligible for a COS.

To avoid a “gap” in status in cases that are adjudicated more than 30 days prior to the academic program start date but are otherwise approvable, USCIS grants the COS to F-1 effective the day USCIS makes a final decision on the COS application, which may in some cases result in a student being granted F-1 status more than 30 days prior to the program start date.

H3: 3. Nonimmigrants Unable to Enroll in a Full Course of Study Seeking Change of Status to F-1 Classification

Certain nonimmigrants, including visitors for business or pleasure (B-1 or B-2), are prohibited from enrolling in a full course of study.[10]Nonimmigrants who wish to enroll in a full course of study but are unable to do so in their current nonimmigrant status must first submit a COS application and request nonimmigrant student (F-1) status. These nonimmigrants must do so while they are still in lawful status.

H3: 4. Other Nonimmigrants Seeking Change of Status to F-1 Classification

Some nonimmigrant classifications  (PDF)permit applicants to enroll in a full course of study incidental to their primary purpose for being in the United States, while other classifications do not. COS applicants in nonimmigrant classifications that permit such enrollment and who enroll in a full course of study may continue their studies, even if their COS to F-1 is approved more than 30 days before their program start date as listed on their Form I-20.[11]

Nonimmigrants whose classifications do not permit enrolling in a course of study must first acquire F-1 status and may only enroll in a full course of study upon the program start date listed on Form I-20.

When an applicant applies for a COS to F-1 status, the applicant must wait until the COS is approved as well as 30 days before the new program start date before engaging in F status-specific activities (such as on-campus employment and practical training).[12]

H3: 5. Travel Abroad and Consular Processing

A nonimmigrant who obtains an F-1 nonimmigrant visa through consular processing may not be admitted more than 30 days before the report date or program start date listed on the Form I-20.[13]If a nonimmigrant travels abroad while their COS application is pending, USCIS considers that COS application abandoned.

If a nonimmigrant student travels abroad after USCIS has approved their F-1 COS application, regulations prohibit re-admission to the United States in F-1 status more than 30 days before the report date or program start date listed on the Form I-20.[14]

H2: B. Vocational Student (M-1) [Reserved]

[Reserved]

H2: C. Extension of Stay

H3: 1. F-1 Students

An F-1 student who is admitted for duration of status is not required to apply for an extension of stay with USCIS as long as the student is maintaining status and making normal progress toward completion of the student’s educational objective.[15]An F-2 dependent is not required to seek an extension of stay as long as the principal maintains F-1 student status.

An F-1 student who continues from one educational level to another is considered to be maintaining status, provided that the transition to the new educational level is completed according to the transfer procedures.[16]F-1 students continuing their studies at another educational level must request that the DSO change the students’ educational level within 60 days of their program end date.

An F-1 student who is maintaining status and making normal progress toward completing their educational objective, but is unable to complete their course of study by the program end date on theForm I-20, must request a program extension from their DSO before the program end date.

The F-1 student may be granted an extension if the DSO certifies that the student has continually maintained status and that the delay is caused by compelling academic or medical reasons, such as a change of major or research topics, unexpected research problems, or documented illnesses. Delays due to academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extensions.

An F-2 dependent of an F-1 student unable to complete their course of study by the program end date on theForm I-20does not need to apply separately for an extension of stay. If the DSO grants a program extension for the F-1 student, the DSO updates SEVIS for both the F-1 student and F-2 dependent.[17]

Failure to receive timely authorization for extension of stay results in the loss of student status.[18]An F-1 student who is unable to complete the educational program within the time listed on theForm I-20and who is ineligible for a program extension is considered out of status as of the program end date.[19]In either case, the student must request to be reinstated to student status to continue studies.[20]

Reinstatement to F-1 Student Status

Generally, USCIS may reinstate a student’s F-1 status if the student makes a request on an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status (Form I-539).[21]The request must be accompanied by a properly completedForm I-20indicating the DSO’s recommendation for reinstatement from the school the student is attending.[22]

The student’s application must show:

- The student filed the application no more than 5 months after being out of status, or exceptional circumstances resulted in the student’s failure to file within 5 months and the request for reinstatement was filed as soon as possible under the circumstances;[23]

- The student does not have a record of repeated or willful violations of DHS regulations;[24]

- The student is currently pursuing or intending to pursue a full course of study in the immediate future at the school that issued theForm I‑20;[25]

- The student has not engaged in unauthorized unemployment;[26]

- The student is not deportable on any ground other than as an alien whose nonimmigrant status has been revoked or an alien who has failed to maintain nonimmigrant status;[27]and

- A favorable exercise of discretion is warranted.[28]

The student’s application must also show:

- The violation of status resulted from circumstances beyond the student’s control;[29]or

- The violation relates to a reduction in the student’s course load that would have been within a DSO’s power to authorize, and that failure to approve reinstatement would result in extreme hardship to the student.[30]

Violations due to the student’s actions, such as criminal activity, are not considered circumstances beyond the student’s control.

The decision to grant a reinstatement request involves an exercise of discretion by USCIS. There are a number of factors or factual circumstances that USCIS officers consider when conducting a discretionary analysis.[31]

H3: 2. M-1 Students

The cumulative time of extensions, including extensions for practical training, that can be granted to an M-1 student is limited to a period of 3 years from the M-1 student’s original start date, plus 30 days.

No extension can be granted to an M-1 student if the student is unable to complete the course of study within 3 years of the original program start date. This limit includes extensions that have been granted due to a drop below a full course of study, a transfer of schools, or reinstatement. M-1 students may be granted an extension of stay if they establish:

- They are currently maintaining M-1 status;

- Compelling educational or medical reasons have resulted in a delay to their course of study (delays caused by academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extension); and

- They are able to, and in good faith intend to, continue to maintain that status for the period for which the extension is granted.[32]

Application

An M-1 student must apply to USCIS for an extension onForm I-539. The student must submit the application at least 15 days, but not more than 60 days, before the program end date on the student’sForm I-20. A student’s M-2 spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 seeking an extension of stay may be included in the application. The application must also be accompanied by the student’sForm I-20and theForm I-94of the student’s spouse and unmarried children, if applicable.

Period of Stay

If USCIS grants an application for extension, the M-1 student and their spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 are given an extension of stay for the period of time necessary to complete the course of study, plus 30 days within which to depart from the United States, or for a total period of 1 year, whichever is less.[33]

A student’s M-2 spouse and unmarred children under the age of 21 are not eligible for an extension unless USCIS grants the M-1 student an extension of stay, and USCIS does not grant them a longer period than USCIS grants the M-1 student.[34]

Reinstatement to M-1 Student Status

USCIS may consider reinstating a student who makes a request for reinstatement on aForm I-539, accompanied by a properly completedForm I-20indicating the DSO’s recommendation for reinstatement. USCIS may consider granting the request only if the student:[35]

- Has not been out of status for more than 5 months at the time of filing the request for reinstatement (or demonstrates that the failure to file within the 5-month period was the result of exceptional circumstances and that the student filed the request for reinstatement as promptly as possible under these exceptional circumstances);

- Does not have a record of repeated or willful violations of DHS regulations;

- Is currently pursuing, or intends to pursue, a full course of study at the school that issued theForm I-20;

- Has not engaged in unlawful employment;

- Is not deportable on any ground other thanINA 237(a)(1)(B)orINA 237(a)(1)(C)(i); and

- Provides evidence that the violation of status resulted from circumstances beyond the student’s control[36]or the violation relates to a reduction in the student’s course load that would have been within a DSO’s power to authorize, and that failure to approve reinstatement would result in extreme hardship to the student.

H2: D. Length of Stay

F-1 students may be admitted for a period of up to 30 days before the indicated report date or program start date listed on theForm I-20.[37]F-1 students are maintaining status if they are making normal progress toward completing a course of study. Admission, except for students enrolled in public high schools, is for duration of status.[38]

M-1 students may be admitted for a period of up to 30 days before the report date or start date of the course of study listed on theForm I-20.

M-1 students are admitted for a fixed time period, which is the period necessary to complete the course of study indicated on theForm I-20, plus any authorized practical training following completion of the course of study, plus an additional 30 days to depart the United States. However, the total time period may not exceed 1 year.[39]

M-1 students are maintaining status if they are making normal progress toward completing a course of study.

H2: E. Duration of Status

F nonimmigrants[40]are admitted into the United States for an unspecified period of time to engage in activities authorized under this nonimmigrant classification. This unspecified period of time is referred to as duration of status.[41]This means that an F nonimmigrant may remain in the United States while maintaining their student status, including any authorized practical training following completion of studies, without being required to apply for an extension of stay with USCIS, or to depart and re-enter the United States in F-1 status.[42]

H2: F. Departure Periods

H3: 1. F-1 Students

F-1 students who have completed their course of study and any authorized practical training following completion of studies are allowed an additional 60-day grace period to prepare for departure from the United States or to transfer to another SEVP-certified school.[43]During the grace period, the F-1 student is deemed to be maintaining nonimmigrant status and may apply for a change to another nonimmigrant or immigrant status.

F-1 students authorized by the DSO to withdraw from classes are allowed a 15-day period for departure from the United States.[44]However, F-1 students who fail to maintain a full course of study without the approval of the DSO or otherwise fail to maintain status are not eligible for an additional period for departure.[45]

H3: 2. M-1 Students

M-1 students who have completed their course of study and any authorized practical training following completion of their studies are allowed an additional 30-day grace period to prepare for departure from the United States.[46]During the grace period, the M-1 student is deemed to be maintaining nonimmigrant status and may apply for an extension of their stay or change to another nonimmigrant or immigrant status. M-1 students who fail to maintain a full course of study or otherwise fail to maintain status are not eligible for the additional 30-day period of stay.[47]

H2: Footnotes

[^ 1]SeeINA 248.

[^ 2]According toINA 101(a)(15)(f), an alien is eligible for F nonimmigrant classification if the alien: has a residence in a foreign country which they have no intention of abandoning, is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study, and seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the purpose of pursuing such a course of study consistent withINA 214(m)at an established college, university, seminary, conservatory, academic high school, elementary school, or other academic institution or in an accredited language training program in the United States.

[^ 3]Violations of status include, among others, engaging in unauthorized employment and certain criminal activity. See8 CFR 214.1.

[^ 4]See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis [1 USCIS-PM E.8]. For a list of factors that should be considered in the discretionary analysis, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis, Section C, Adjudicating Discretionary Benefits, Subsection 2, Identifying Discretionary Factors [1 USCIS-PM E.8(C)(2)].

[^ 5]See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis [1 USCIS-PM E.8].

[^ 6]See Subsection 4, Other Nonimmigrants Seeking Change of Status to F-1 Classification [2 USCIS-PM F.8(A)(4)].

[^ 7]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(9(i).

[^ 8]SeeAdjudicator's Field Manual Chapter 40.9.2. Students may be subject to 3-year or 10-year bars on their readmission to the country, respectively, if they accrue more than 180 days or 1 year of unlawful presence. SeeINA 212(a)(9)(B).

[^ 9]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5).

[^ 10]See8 CFR 214.2(b)(7).

[^ 11]Under8 CFR 214.2(f)(15)(ii), an F-2 is permitted to enroll in post-secondary or vocational study at an SEVP-certified school so long as any study remains less than a full course of study.

[^ 12]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(9(i).

[^ 13]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i).

[^ 14]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i).

[^ 15]For a discussion of the extension of stay available to certain F-1 beneficiaries of an H-1B petition, under the “cap gap” provisions, see Chapter 5, Practical Training, Section D, F-1 “Cap-gap” Extension [2 USCIS-PM F.5(D)].

[^ 16]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(8).

[^ 17]See9 FAM 403.9-4(E), Maximum Initial Periods of Admission and Extension of Stay.

[^ 18]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(7)(iii).

[^ 19]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(7)(iii).

[^ 20]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(7)(iii)(directing that the application for reinstatement would be under the provisions of8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)).

[^ 21]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16).

[^ 22]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i).

[^ 23]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(A).

[^ 24]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(B).

[^ 25]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(C).

[^ 26]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(D).

[^ 27]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(E).

[^ 28]See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis [1 USCIS-PM E.8]. For a list of factors that should be considered in the discretionary analysis, see Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis, Section C, Adjudicating Discretionary Benefits, Subsection 2, Identifying Discretionary Factors [1 USCIS-PM E.8(C)(2)].

[^ 29]For example, serious injury or illness; closure of the institution; a natural disaster; or inadvertence, oversight, or neglect on the part of the school’s DSO. Situations caused by the student’s willful failure or by a pattern of repeated violations do not qualify. See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(F)(1).

[^ 30]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(16)(i)(F)(2).

[^ 31]See Volume 1, General Policies and Procedures, Part E, Adjudications, Chapter 8, Discretionary Analysis [1 USCIS-PM E.8].

[^ 32]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(10).

[^ 33]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(10)(iii).

[^ 34]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(10)(iii).

[^ 35]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(16).

[^ 36]Circumstances beyond the student’s control might include serious injury or illness, closure of the institution, a natural disaster, or inadvertence, oversight, or neglect on the part of the DSO. They do not include instances where a pattern of repeated violations or a willful failure on the part of the student resulted in the need for reinstatement.

[^ 37]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i).

[^ 38]An F-1 student who is admitted to attend a public high school is restricted to an aggregate of 12 months of study at any public high school. See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i).

[^ 39]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(5).

[^ 40]Students traveling on M visas (students in vocational or other nonacademic institutions) generally are admitted for a fixed time period, rather than for duration of status, although extensions are possible. See8 CFR 214.2(m)(5)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(10).

[^ 41]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i). Duration of status is defined as the time during which an F-1 student is pursuing a full course of study at an educational institution certified by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Student and Exchange Visitor Program for attendance by foreign students or engaging in authorized practical training following completion of studies. The student is considered to be maintaining status if the student is making normal progress toward completing a course of study.

[^ 42]SeeINA 214(m). See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(i). Statutory and regulatory requirements restrict the duration of study for F-1 students to attend a public high school to an aggregate of 12 months of study at any public high school.

[^ 43]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(iv).

[^ 44]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(iv).

[^ 45]See8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(iv).

[^ 46]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(5)and8 CFR 214.2(m)(10).

[^ 47]See8 CFR 214.2(m)(5).

H2: Resources

22 CFR 41.61Students - academic and nonacademic

8 CFR 214.1(c)(5)- Decision on application for extension or change of status

8 CFR 214.13- SEVIS fee for certain F, J, and M nonimmigrants

8 CFR 214.2(f)- Students in colleges, universities, seminaries, conservatories, academic high schools, elementary schools, other academic institutions, and in language training programs

8 CFR 214.2(m)- Students in established vocational or other recognized nonacademic institutions, other than in language training programs

8 CFR 214.2(q)(5)(ii)- Petition for multiple participants

8 CFR 214.3- Approval of schools for enrollment of F and M nonimmigrants

8 CFR 274a.12(c)- Aliens who must apply for employment authorization

INA 101(a)(15)(F)- Academic student definition

INA 101(a)(15)(M)- Vocational student definition

INA 214(c)- Admission of nonimmigrants

INA 214(m)- Nonimmigrant elementary and secondary school students

INA 248,8 CFR 248- Change of nonimmigrant classification

G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative

I-539, Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status

How to Use the USCIS Policy Manual Website

H2: Appendices

TABLE:
Requirement | F-1 | M-1
Acceptance at a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-certified school | Required | Required
Bona fide student pursuing full course of study | Required | Required
Sufficient funds | Must have sufficient funds that are or will be available to successfully study without resorting to unauthorized employment in the United States for financial support | Must have immediately available funds or assurances of support necessary to pay all tuition and living costs for the entire period of intended stay
Full-time study | Required, unless Designated School Official (DSO) or the Secretary of Homeland Security (in a Federal Register notice) authorizes a reduced course load | Required, unless DSO authorizes a reduced course load for medical reasons
Public schools | No study permitted at a public school for kindergarten through grade eight. Study is only permitted at an U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP)-certified public high school (grades nine through 12) and is limited to 12 months. The student must demonstrate that they have paid the unsubsidized cost of the education to the educational agency. | No study permitted at a public school for kindergarten through grade eight
School transfers | Allowed, DSO must record in Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) | Allowed if it is less than 6 months into program of study and student cannot remain at present school due to circumstances beyond their control. USCIS must authorize. Student cannot change educational objective.
Curricular Practical Training | Allowed, DSO must authorize | Not applicable
Optional Practical Training (OPT) (pre-completion) | Allowed, if student has been enrolled for 1 full academic year. Must be directly related to the student’s major area of study. Cannot be full-time while school is in session. DSO must endorse, and USCIS must approve and issue employment authorization document (EAD) prior to the student starting OPT. | Not applicable
OPT (post-completion) | Allowed, must be directly related to the student’s major area of study. Requires DSO endorsement, approval by USCIS, and issuance of EAD | Not applicable
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) OPT Extension | Allowed, must have a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree, or doctorate degree that is on theSTEM Designated Degree Program List            (PDF); receive DSO endorsement; and receive USCIS approval to qualify for a 24-month OPT extension | Not applicable
Practical Training | Not applicable | Allowed after completion of the student’s course of study. Must be related to the student’s course of study, and employment comparable to the proposed employment is not available to the student in the country of the student’s foreign residence. Requires approval by USCIS and issuance of EAD.
Maximum Stay | Duration of status | 1 year, plus extensions not to exceed 3 years
Program Extension | Allowed, if the student has continually maintained F-1 status, the need is caused by a compelling academic or medical reason, and the student applies to the student’s DSO for the extension before the student’s Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20) expires | Allowed, the maximum cumulative time of extensions is 3 years from original start date. M-1s must apply for an extension beyond the end date of their Arrival/Departure Record (Form I-94) by filing an Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status (Form I-539) with USCIS
Family members | Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 are eligible for the F-2 visa classification | Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 are eligible for the M-2 visa classification

F-1

M-1

H2: Updates

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding the factors that officers may consider in certain benefit requests where an exercise of discretion is required, including factors relating to aliens’ past requests for parole and any involvement in anti-American or terrorist organizations.

1 USCIS-PM E.8-Chapter 8 - Discretionary Analysis

2 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Extension of Stay, Change of Status, and Extension of Petition Validity

2 USCIS-PM F.8-Chapter 8 - Change of Status, Extension of Stay, and Length of Stay

7 USCIS-PM A.10-Chapter 10 - Legal Analysis and Use of Discretion

10 USCIS-PM A.4-Chapter 4 - Adjudication

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”], and makes other technical and conforming changes.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to address the nonimmigrant student (F and M) classifications, including USCIS’ role in the adjudication of applications for employment authorization and change or reinstatement of status to F or M classifications.

2 USCIS-PM F.1-Chapter 1 - Purpose and Background

2 USCIS-PM F.2-Chapter 2 - Eligibility Requirements

2 USCIS-PM F.3-Chapter 3 - Courses and Enrollment, Full Course of Study, and Reduced Course Load

2 USCIS-PM F.4-Chapter 4 - School Transfer

2 USCIS-PM F.5-Chapter 5 - Practical Training

2 USCIS-PM F.6-Chapter 6 - Employment

2 USCIS-PM F.7-Chapter 7 - Absences From the United States

2 USCIS-PM F.8-Chapter 8 - Change of Status, Extension of Stay, and Length of Stay

2 USCIS-PM F.9-Chapter 9 - Dependents

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is issuing policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual regarding applications for change of status (COS) to F-1 classification.

2 USCIS-PM F.8-Chapter 8 - Change of Status, Extension of Stay, and Length of Stay

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the Policy Manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is revising its policy guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual to align with the Fee Schedule and Changes to Certain Other Immigration Benefit Request Requirements Final Rule, published in the Federal Register on August 3, 2020. This guidance becomes effective October 2, 2020. For information regarding implementation, seeAppendix: 2020 Fee Rule Litigation Summary.

1 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Public Services

1 USCIS-PM B-Part B - Submission of Benefit Requests

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

7 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Adjustment of Status Policies and Procedures

7 USCIS-PM F-Part F - Special Immigrant-Based Adjustment

7 USCIS-PM M-Part M - Asylee Adjustment

11 USCIS-PM A-Part A - Secure Identity Documents Policies and Procedures

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is updating and incorporating relevant Adjudicator’s Field Manual (AFM) content into the USCIS Policy Manual. As that process is ongoing, USCIS has moved any remaining AFM content to its corresponding USCIS Policy Manual Part, in PDF format, until relevant AFM content has been properly incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual. To the extent that a provision in the USCIS Policy Manual conflicts with remaining AFM content or Policy Memoranda, the updated information in the USCIS Policy Manual prevails. To find remaining AFM content, see thecrosswalkbetween the AFM and the Policy Manual.

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

3 USCIS-PM-Volume 3 - Humanitarian Protection and Parole

4 USCIS-PM-Volume 4 - Refugees and Asylees

5 USCIS-PM-Volume 5 - Adoptions

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization

This technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the Policy Manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in INA 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the United States”].

1 USCIS-PM-Volume 1 - General Policies and Procedures

2 USCIS-PM-Volume 2 - Nonimmigrants

6 USCIS-PM-Volume 6 - Immigrants

7 USCIS-PM-Volume 7 - Adjustment of Status

8 USCIS-PM-Volume 8 - Admissibility

9 USCIS-PM-Volume 9 - Waivers and Other Forms of Relief

10 USCIS-PM-Volume 10 - Employment Authorization

11 USCIS-PM-Volume 11 - Travel and Identity Documents

12 USCIS-PM-Volume 12 - Citizenship and Naturalization