H1: Direct Filing Addresses for Form I-212, Application for Permission to Reapply for Admission into the United States After Deportation or Removal

Alert:Before sending your package to USCIS, make sure that all the forms you have completed are the current acceptable edition. The current acceptable edition can be found under the Edition Date section listed on each form’s webpage.

You can also find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. For each form that you are submitting, make sure that all pages are from the same form edition. If any of the form’s pages are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. WatchUSCIS Forms: Download the most recent version!to see how to ensure your form is acceptable.

For additional guidance on filing paper-based forms at the Lockbox and how to avoid or correct common errors before you file, please visit theFive Steps to File at the USCIS Lockboxwebpage.

TABLE:
You are an: | Office Where the Application is Filed | Source | Office Where the Application is Adjudicated
Applicant for nonimmigrant visa (other than K, T, U, or V Visa Applicants) | U.S. Consulate (Department of State)with jurisdiction over your nonimmigrant visa application. The U.S. Consulate will advise you on whether and how to file to obtain consent to reapply for admission. | 8 CFR 212.2(b), 8 CFR 212.2(g) | U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)CBP/Admissibility Review Office (ARO)
Applicant who wishes to seek admission as a nonimmigrant at a U.S. Port-of-Entry who is not required to obtain a nonimmigrant visa | U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). File this form in person at a CBP-designated Port-of-Entry or a CBP-designated preclearance office. It is recommended that you contact the CBP-designated Port-of-Entry or a CBP-designated preclearance office where you intend to be processed before submitting your application. To find a CBP-designated Port-of-Entry or a CBP-designated preclearance office, visit the CBP Web site atwww.cbp.gov. | 8 CFR 212.2(f) | U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)/Admissibility Review Office (ARO)
Applicant who is a citizen of Palau, the Federal States of Micronesia, or the Marshall Islands and who wishes to seek admission as a nonimmigrant | U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)File this form at CBP Guam Port-of-Entry or contact the nearest U.S. Consulate to receive instructions on where and how to file to obtain consent to reapply for admission. To find contact information for the CBP Guam Port-of-Entry, visit the CBP Web site atwww.cbp.gov. | 8 CFR 212.2(f), 8 CFR 212.2(b), 8 CFR 212.2(g) | U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)/ Admissibility Review Office (ARO)
Applicant for K or V nonimmigrant visa under INA section 101(a)(15)(K) and (V)You may request consent to reapply for admission to the United States after you have attended your visa interview at a U.S. consulate and after a consular officer has found you inadmissible. | USCIS Phoenix LockboxU.S. Postal Service (USPS):USCISAttn: I-212P.O. Box 21600Phoenix, AZ 85036-1600FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:USCISAttn: I-212 (Box 21600)2108 E. Elliot Rd.Tempe, AZ 85284-1806 | 8 CFR 212.2 | USCIS Service CenterOperations
Applicant for immigrant visa who is outside the United States and in need of concurrent waiver filed on Form I-601You may request both the waiver and consent to reapply for admission to the United States after you have attended your visa interview at a U.S. consulate and after a consular officer has found you inadmissible. You must file Form I-212 together with Form I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility. | USCIS Phoenix LockboxU.S. Postal Service (USPS):USCISAttn: I-212 Foreign FilersP.O. Box 21600Phoenix, AZ 85036-1600FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:USCISAttn: I-212 Foreign Filers (Box 21600)​​​​​​​2108 E. Elliot Rd.​​​​​​​Tempe, AZ 85284-1806 | 8 CFR 212.2(d) | USCIS Service CenterOperations
Applicant for an immigrant visa based on an approved VAWA self-petition (Form I-360, Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant) | Visit ourFiling Addresses for Certain Forms Filed in Connection With a VAWA, T, or U Visa Application/Petitionpage to see where to file based on where you live. | INA Section 212(a)(9)(A) | USCIS Service CenterOperations
Applicant physically present in the United States, applying for adjustment of status with USCIS and inadmissible only under INA section 212(a)(9)(A) (whether or not you need Form I-601)You must file the application either concurrently with your application for adjustment of status (Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status), or  any time after. | USCISoffice with jurisdiction over the adjustment of status application (Form I-485).If you are filing Form I-212 together with Form I-485, you must file at the filing location specified on Form I-485.If your Form I-485 is currently pending, you must file Form I-212 with the USCIS office where your Form I-485 is pending. | 8 CFR 212.2(e) | USCISoffice with jurisdiction over the adjustment of status application.
Applicant for immigrant visa and waiver on Form I-601 not required | USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where your deportation or removal proceedings were heldIf you are inadmissible because you had previously accrued unlawful presence in total of 1 year or more in the United States, and you departed the United States and entered or attempted to reenter the United States without being admitted (INA section 212(a)(9)(C)(i)(I)), you may not have been in removal proceedings. In this case, you should file the application with the USCIS Field Office with jurisdiction over your intended place of residence in the United States. | 8 CFR 212.2(d) | USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where the deportation or removal proceedings were held
Applicant physically present in the United States but not eligible for adjustment of status because of inadmissibility under INA section 212(a)(9)(C) | You may not file the application until you have departed the United States and until you have resided abroad for 10 years since your last departure.Once the 10-year requirement is satisfied, you may apply. Jurisdiction is determined:According to the principles outlined above for individuals outside the United States, andBased on the individual’s need for a waiver filed on Form I-601 | Matter of Torres-Garcia, 23 I&N Dec. 866 (BIA 2006) and Matter of Briones, 24 I&N Dec. 355 (BIA 2007) | N/A
Applicant physically present in the United States but in removal proceedingsNOTE: If the alien is put into removal proceedings after having filed Form I-212 with USCIS, the USCIS officer should forward the application to the EOIR location with jurisdiction over the alien’s proceedings. | Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) Immigration Courtwith jurisdiction over the removal proceedingsIf your application for adjustment of status under INA section 245 has been filed, renewed, or is pending in a proceeding before an immigration judge, you should file Form I-212 according to the instructions provided to you in immigration court.  For information about the EOIR, visit EOIR’s web site atwww.usdoj.gov/eoir | 8 CFR 212.2(e); March 31, 2005 Memorandum, William R Yates,EOIR Processing | Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR)Immigration Courtwith jurisdiction over the removal proceedings
Applicant seeking conditionally granted advance permission to reapply for admission prior to departure and is inadmissible only under INA section 212 (a)(9)(A) (whether or not another waiver under section 212(g), (h), (i), or 212 (a)(9)(B) is needed) | USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where you are residing | 8 CFR 212.2(j) | USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where you are residing
All other circumstances not listed above | USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where deportation or removal proceedings were held, or with the Field Office Director who exercised or is exercising jurisdiction over your most recent proceedings | 8 CFR 212.2(g)(i) and (ii) | USCIS Field Office

U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)

CBP/Admissibility Review Office (ARO)

U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)

File this form at CBP Guam Port-of-Entry or contact the nearest U.S. Consulate to receive instructions on where and how to file to obtain consent to reapply for admission. To find contact information for the CBP Guam Port-of-Entry, visit the CBP Web site atwww.cbp.gov.

Applicant for K or V nonimmigrant visa under INA section 101(a)(15)(K) and (V)

You may request consent to reapply for admission to the United States after you have attended your visa interview at a U.S. consulate and after a consular officer has found you inadmissible.

USCIS Phoenix Lockbox

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-212P.O. Box 21600Phoenix, AZ 85036-1600

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-212 (Box 21600)2108 E. Elliot Rd.Tempe, AZ 85284-1806

Applicant for immigrant visa who is outside the United States and in need of concurrent waiver filed on Form I-601

You may request both the waiver and consent to reapply for admission to the United States after you have attended your visa interview at a U.S. consulate and after a consular officer has found you inadmissible. You must file Form I-212 together with Form I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility.

USCIS Phoenix Lockbox

U.S. Postal Service (USPS):

USCISAttn: I-212 Foreign FilersP.O. Box 21600Phoenix, AZ 85036-1600

FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries:

USCISAttn: I-212 Foreign Filers (Box 21600)​​​​​​​2108 E. Elliot Rd.​​​​​​​Tempe, AZ 85284-1806

Applicant physically present in the United States, applying for adjustment of status with USCIS and inadmissible only under INA section 212(a)(9)(A) (whether or not you need Form I-601)

You must file the application either concurrently with your application for adjustment of status (Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status), or  any time after.

USCISoffice with jurisdiction over the adjustment of status application (Form I-485).

If you are filing Form I-212 together with Form I-485, you must file at the filing location specified on Form I-485.

If your Form I-485 is currently pending, you must file Form I-212 with the USCIS office where your Form I-485 is pending.

USCIS Field Officewith jurisdiction over the place where your deportation or removal proceedings were held

If you are inadmissible because you had previously accrued unlawful presence in total of 1 year or more in the United States, and you departed the United States and entered or attempted to reenter the United States without being admitted (INA section 212(a)(9)(C)(i)(I)), you may not have been in removal proceedings. In this case, you should file the application with the USCIS Field Office with jurisdiction over your intended place of residence in the United States.

You may not file the application until you have departed the United States and until you have resided abroad for 10 years since your last departure.

Once the 10-year requirement is satisfied, you may apply. Jurisdiction is determined:

- According to the principles outlined above for individuals outside the United States, and

- Based on the individual’s need for a waiver filed on Form I-601

Applicant physically present in the United States but in removal proceedings

NOTE: If the alien is put into removal proceedings after having filed Form I-212 with USCIS, the USCIS officer should forward the application to the EOIR location with jurisdiction over the alien’s proceedings.

Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) Immigration Courtwith jurisdiction over the removal proceedings

If your application for adjustment of status under INA section 245 has been filed, renewed, or is pending in a proceeding before an immigration judge, you should file Form I-212 according to the instructions provided to you in immigration court.  For information about the EOIR, visit EOIR’s web site atwww.usdoj.gov/eoir

E-Notification: If you want to receive an e-mail and/or a text message that yourForm I-212has been accepted at a USCIS Lockbox facility, completeForm G-1145, E-Notification of Application/Petition Acceptanceand clip it to the first page of your application.