H1: Tips for Filing Form I-864EZ, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA

This tip sheet will help you completeForm I-864EZ, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA. DetailedInstructions for Filing Form I-864EZare also available. When filing Form I-864EZ, it is important to fill out the form completely and provide all required information with your initial filing. This will reduce processing delays and errors in communication.

Please read and follow the filing tips to ensure proper processing.

Note: All 7 pages of Form I-864EZ must be submitted.

Who completes this form?The individual who filed the  visa petition for the intending immigrant completes and signs this form. If the visa petitioner is under guardianship, the guardian of the visa petitioner’s estate (financial affairs) may sign the form.

- As thevisa petitionerandsponsor, by completing Form I-864EZ you agree to financially support the intending immigrant who has applied for either an immigrant visa or adjustment of status to become a lawful permanent resident.

- You need to submit taxes and W2’s if you are not using an IRS printout that demonstrates your income.

- Anintending immigrantis a person who requests to become a lawful permanent resident of the U.S. by either applying for an immigrant visa to come to the U.S., or applying for adjustment of status in the United States.

Submitting Evidence

The principal immigrant must submit one original Form I-864EZ for the intending immigrant’s file along with supporting financial evidence of his or her income. Form I-864EZ is considered original if it is signed in black ink.

Tips on completing Form I-864EZ

TABLE:
Section | What to Do
Part 1, Questions 1.a.-c. | You must answer yes to each question in order to use Form I-864EZ. If any questions are answered no, please complete Form I-864 instead. If you are a joint sponsor, please complete a Form I-864. If you are the sponsor and plan to use income from a household member to support the intending immigrant, file a Form I-864.
Part 2 | Enter the requested information about the intending immigrant.
Part 3, Question 5 | List your Country of Domicile, which is the country you maintain principal residency and plan to reside in the future.
Part 3, Questions 12.a.-d. | List your citizenship or nationality.
Part 5, Questions 1-4 | List your current employment information and individual annual income.
Part 6, Question 6.a.-b. | You must sign and date the form in black ink. The signature needs to be original (not a photocopy) on the Form I-864EZ you submit.

Note:If there are accompanying family members who wish to immigrate with the principal intending immigrant or within six months of the principal intending immigrant’s travel to the United States, you cannot use this form and should complete Form I-864 instead.