H1: 4.4 Acceptable Receipts

You must accept a receipt in place of List A, B, or C documentation if the employee presents one, unless employment will last less than three business days. New employees who choose to present a receipt must do so within three business days after their first day of employment, or for reverification or existing employees, by the date that their employment authorization expires.

Table 2 provides a list of acceptable receipts an employee can show. Enter the word “Receipt” followed by the title of the document in Section 2 under the list that relates to the receipt.

When your employee presents the original replacement document, cross out the word “Receipt,” then enter the information from the new documentation into the Additional Information field in Section 2, and initial and date the change.

Accepting a second receipt at the end of the initial receipt validity period is not permissible.

Table 2 Acceptable Receipts

TABLE:
Description of Receipt | Who may present this receipt? | Is this a List A, B, or C document? | How long is this receipt valid for Form I-9 purposes? | What document must the employee show at the end of the receipt validity period?
The departure portion of a Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, with an unexpired refugee admission stamp or admission code of “RE.” | Refugees | List A | 90 days from date of hire or, for reverification, 90 days from the date employment authorization expires. | An unexpired Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or a combination of a valid List B document and an unrestricted Social Security card.
The arrival portion of a Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, containing a temporary I-551 (otherwise known as the Alien Documentation, Identification and Telecommunication (ADIT)) stamp and photograph. | Lawful permanent residents | List A | Until the expiration date of the temporary I-551 (ADIT) stamp, or if there is no expiration date, one year from date of admission. | The actual Form I-551, Permanent Resident Card, also known as a “Green Card.”
A document that shows an employee applied to replace a lost, stolen, or damaged document. | All employees | Can be List A, B, or C, depending on which document the receipt relates to. | 90 days from date of hire or, for reverification, 90 days from the date employment authorization expires. | The actual replacement document. You may also accept other Form I-9 documentation from the Lists of Acceptable Documents. If you accept documentation other than the actual replacement document, record the document information on Section 2 of a new Form I-9 and attach it to the original Form I-9.You should also note in the Additional Information box on the new Form I-9 the reason that documentation other than the replacement document was presented – for example, document delays, changes in status, or other factors – and sign and date the note.If the receipt is for a List A document but the employee cannot present the actual replacement List A document for which the receipt was issued by the end of the 90-day receipt period, then the employee may choose to present a different document from List A, or one document each from List B and List C to satisfy the Form I-9 requirements.If the receipt is for a List B document but the employee cannot present the actual document by the end of the 90-day receipt period, then the employee may choose to present a document from List A instead, or a different List B document to satisfy the Form I-9 requirements.If the receipt is for a List C document, and the employee does not provide the actual document, the employee can present a List A document or another List C document instead.
Unexpired Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, containing a class of admission of UHP or OAR on the document or unexpired Form I-94 containing a class of admission of PAR and indicates Afghanistan as country of citizenship on the document | Certain Parolees | List A | 90 days (or when the I-94 expires, if less) from date of hire or, for reverification, the date employment authorization expires. | An unexpired Employment Authorization Document (EAD), or an unrestricted Social Security card and a List B identity document from the Form I-9 Lists of Acceptable Documents.
An unexpired Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record that contains a class of admission of DT issued between Feb. 24, 2022, and Sept. 30, 2024, and indicates Ukraine as the country of citizenship on the document | Ukrainian citizen parolees | List A | 90 days (or when the I-94 expires, if less) from date of hire or, for reverification, the date employment authorization expires. | An unexpired Employment Authorization Document (EAD), or an unrestricted Social Security card and a List B identity document from the Form I-9 Lists of Acceptable Documents.

The actual replacement document. You may also accept other Form I-9 documentation from the Lists of Acceptable Documents. If you accept documentation other than the actual replacement document, record the document information on Section 2 of a new Form I-9 and attach it to the original Form I-9.

You should also note in the Additional Information box on the new Form I-9 the reason that documentation other than the replacement document was presented – for example, document delays, changes in status, or other factors – and sign and date the note.

- If the receipt is for a List A document but the employee cannot present the actual replacement List A document for which the receipt was issued by the end of the 90-day receipt period, then the employee may choose to present a different document from List A, or one document each from List B and List C to satisfy the Form I-9 requirements.

- If the receipt is for a List B document but the employee cannot present the actual document by the end of the 90-day receipt period, then the employee may choose to present a document from List A instead, or a different List B document to satisfy the Form I-9 requirements.

- If the receipt is for a List C document, and the employee does not provide the actual document, the employee can present a List A document or another List C document instead.

Unexpired Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, containing a class of admission of UHP or OAR on the document or unexpired Form I-94 containing a class of admission of PAR and indicates Afghanistan as country of citizenship on the document

An unexpired Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record that contains a class of admission of DT issued between Feb. 24, 2022, and Sept. 30, 2024, and indicates Ukraine as the country of citizenship on the document